Gateway Development Commission 
Meeting of The Board  
Held In-Person and via Teleconference 
December 11, 2023 
 
MINUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Janine Bauer 
Amy Rosen 
 
NEW YORK 
Jamey Barbas 
Marie Therese Dominguez 
 
AMTRAK 
Anthony R. Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. Call to Order 
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 12:02 PM.  
 Co-Chair Grewal-Virk advised that as part of the transition from virtual meetings, public comments 
were being solicited both in-person and virtually, and audio of the meeting was being live-streamed from 
the Gateway Program website.  
 Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and 
that a form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway Program website for those who 
wished to submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
 Acting Secretary Caulfield conducted a roll call and confirmed that there was a quorum. 
Commissioners Barbas, Coscia, Dominguez and Rosen all participated virtually via teleconference during 
the entirety of the meeting. Co-Chair Glen was not in attendance. 
 Acting Secretary Caulfield stated that adequate notice of today’s regular public meeting of the 
Board of Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s 
enabling legislation. 
II. Report on Minutes of the November 16, 2023 Meeting 
Acting Secretary Caulfield reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of November 16, 
2023 were delivered in electronic form by Acting Secretary Caulfield to the Governors of New York and 
New Jersey on November 20, 2023 and that the time for action by the Governors of New York and New 
Jersey expired at midnight on December 6, 2023, at which time the actions recorded in the Minutes went 
into full force and effect.  
III. Gateway Program Update 
The Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Kris Kolluri, and Acting Chief Financial Officer, Patrick 
McCoy, provided updates on the Gateway Program. This presentation included an overview of the GDC 
Fiscal Year 2024 Final Operating and Capital Budget. Mr. McCoy provided an overview and noted that in 
accordance with the GDC Act the proposed budget had been posted to the Gateway Program website 
following a presentation at the November 16, 2023 Board Meeting and now the final budget was being 
presented to the Board for consideration and adoption.  
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
2 
 
 
Following the presentation, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk thanked Mr. Kolluri and the rest of the GDC staff 
for the update, and noted the progress on the project in 2023.  None of the other Commissioners had any 
questions or comments.  
IV. Public Comments 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk announced that the Commission had solicited in-person and virtual 
comments from the public in advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for 
soliciting these comments was posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout 
today’s meeting. She also indicated that public attending in-person had opportunity to sign up in advance 
or when arriving today. There were four (4) written comments received by 5:00 PM on December 10, 
2023. 
 
Co-Chair Grewal Virk noted that all virtual written comments received on December 11 th before 
and during the meeting would be distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and 
filed in the Commission’s records after the meeting. There were no additional virtual written comments 
received on December 11th. 
The following individuals provided in-person public comments during the December 11, 2023 
Board Meeting: 
 
V. Action Items 
#1223-01: Adoption of Gateway Development Commission’s Final Annual Operating and Capital 
Budget for Fiscal Year 2024 and Authorization for GDC CEO to Enter Into Operating and Capital 
Funding Agreements  
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have 
any comments on this Resolution. Commissioner Bauer made a motion, and Commissioner Rosen 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
 
Commenter  Topic 
Wanda Nazar, Expediting Support Services DBE Certified 
Samira Ayati, Ivy Engineering Group PLCC N/A 
Chad Purkey, Association for a Better New York Hudson Tunnel Project Full Funding Grant 
Agreement 
Sophie Capello, Regional Plan Association/Build 
Gateway Now Coalition 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Commenter  Topic 
Christina Kata, Regional Plan Association Advocating for remaining funding commitments 
and Phase 2 Projects  
Daniel Ortega, ELEC 825 N/A 
Carl Evans, B.O.S.S. Tunnel Vision Team DBE Inclusion 
Edward Funches, Individual Disability program  
Chris Hartman, NJ Alliance for Action N/A 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
3 
 
 
#1223-02: Authorization to Increase the Not-to-Exceed Amount for the Final Option Period of 
Contract with Ernst & Young Infrastructure Advisors, LLC (No. MCP18-002) 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have 
any comments on this Resolution. Commissioner Bauer made a motion, and Vice Chair Coscia seconded 
the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#1223-03: Authorization to Enter Into and Execute Capital Funding Agreement with National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation  
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have 
any comments on this Resolution. Commissioner Rosen made a motion, and Commissioner Bauer 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
VI. Adjournment 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that there was no further business to conduct, and Co-Chair Grewal-
Virk then requested a motion to adjourn the meeting. Upon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair 
Grewal-Virk and seconded by Commissioner Bauer, the meeting was adjourned at approximately 12:27 
PM.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ Edmund Caulfield    
Edmund Caulfield, Acting Secretary 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted – 12/11/23 
#1223-01: ADOPTION OF GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION’S FINAL ANNUAL OPERATING AND 
CAPITAL BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2024 AND AUTHORIZATION FOR GDC TO ENTER INTO OPERATING 
AND CAPITAL FUNDING AGREEMENTS 
The Gateway Development Commission (the “ Commission” or “ GDC”) is a public authority and 
government sponsored authority created through the enactment of parallel legislation by the States of 
New York and New Jersey codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Sess. Laws 
Ch. 108 and 2019 N.J. Sess. Law Serv. Ch. 195) (collectively, the “GDC Act”). 
 The GDC Act provides that the Commission “shall prepare a detailed annual operating budget”, 
and further provides that a “preliminary annual operating budget shall be made publicly available on the 
Commission's website each fiscal year and a final annual operating budget shall be made publicly available 
on the Commission's website each fiscal year.”  
The GDC Act notes that “[t]he time with which such preliminary annual operating budget and final 
annual operating budget shall be made public during each fiscal year shall be determined by the 
Commission.”  
Commission staff prepared a proposed operating and capital budget for Fiscal Year 2024, which 
was presented to the Commission’s Board of Commissioners (the “Board”) prior to the Board’s November 
16, 2023 meeting. 
 
The proposed operating and capital budget was publicly presented at the Board’s November 16, 
2023 meeting and was subsequently posted publicly on the Commission website, all in accordance with 
the GDC Act. 
 
The operafing and capital budget forecasts spending of $68,273,439, comprised of total operafing 
expenses of $27,945,803, and total capital expenses of $40,327,636. The operafing budget will provide 
necessary support for salaries of current staﬀ, hiring of addifional staﬀ, professional services necessary to 
support and supplement the work of Commission staﬀ, and other administrafive expenses necessary to 
support the Commission’s operafions, as further detailed in Exhibit A. The capital budget will provide 
necessary funding for the delivery partner, interest costs, and to address the Commission’s obligafions 
under certain Supporfing or Execufing Partner Agreements. 
The Commission desires to adopt the proposed operating and capital budget as the final annual 
operating and capital budget for Fiscal Year 2024. 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to “enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out any 
power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose which the 
commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with the federal 
government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New York, with any local 
government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, commission or authority of any one 
or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, 
or with any one or more of them.” 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e).  
The Project Development Agreement for Hudson Tunnel Project (the “ PDA”) is a foundational 
framework between the States of New Jersey and New York, the National Passenger Railroad Corporation 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted – 12/11/23 
 
2 
 
(“Amtrak”), and GDC for the procurement, construction, and delivery of the Hudson Tunnel Project (the 
“HTP”). Under the PDA, GDC is responsible for delivery of the HTP and serves in a central role as project 
sponsor.  
Section 11.01 of the PDA provides that GDC will enter into separate funding agreements with the 
State of New York, the State of New Jersey, and Amtrak requiring each to fund one-third of the 
Commission’s annual operating budget for the HTP, as approved by the Board, to ensure that the 
Commission’s operations are continuously funded.   
The Commission intends to enter into operating and capital funding agreements with the State of 
New York, the State of New Jersey, and Amtrak (“the GDC Operating and Capital Funding Agreements”) 
to fund a portion of the expenses reflected in the final annual Operating and Capital Budget for Fiscal Year 
2024 (subject to final approval by the Board). This final annual Operating and Capital Budget for Fiscal 
Year 2024 is intended to cover the fiscal year ending December 31, 2024, or until such time as the Board 
adopts a subsequent annual operating and capital budget.  
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolufion was adopted, with Commissioners 
Barbas, Bauer, Coscia, Dominguez, Grewal-Virk, and Rosen vofing in favor: 
RESOLVED, pursuant to the Act, the Commission adopts the Operating and Capital Budget 
attached hereto as Exhibit A in the amount of $68,273,439 as the final annual Operating and Capital 
budget for Fiscal Year 2024; and 
 
RESOLVED that the GDC CEO is authorized to expend, in the normal course of business, the funds 
necessary to meet GDC’s obligafions, essenfially in accordance with this ﬁnal annual Operafing and Capital 
Budget for Fiscal Year 2024 Resolufion and aftachment; and 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC CEO is authorized to take any and all acfions consistent with this 
Resolufion and to make, execute, and deliver in the name of and on behalf of GDC all instruments, 
agreements, cerfiﬁcafions, and all other documents as may be required or contemplated by the foregoing 
with respect to the GDC Operafing and Capital Funding Agreements with the State of New York, the State 
of New Jersey, and Amtrak, containing such terms as the GDC CEO and applicable staﬀ deems necessary 
and advisable in order to eﬀectuate the foregoing transacfions, as well as any addifional agreements that 
may be necessary related to the disposifion of exisfing and unused Fiscal Year 2023 funding, subject to 
Board acfion to approve the use of such funding; and 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC CEO and applicable staﬀ will report back to the Board once GDC and the 
State of New York, the State of New Jersey, and Amtrak have executed the respecfive GDC Operafions 
Funding Agreements. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted – 12/11/23 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

1
GDC Final Annual Operating & Capital Budget for Fiscal Year 2024Operating ExpensesStaff (1) $12,344,174Professional Support Services (including financial advisory, outside legal counsel, and systems costs)$11,945,980Federal-related Costs (Build America Bureau) $2,000,000Rent and Utilities $595,175Administration $439,516Office Equipment, Services and Supplies $620,958Total Operating Expenses $27,945,803Capital Expenses (2) Total Capital Expenses $40,327,636Total Budgeted Expenses $68,273,439(2) Includes Delivery Partner, interest on revolving loan facility, and staffing and Budget plan expenses for the Supporting Execution Partners (SEP), (PANYNJ and NJT).(1) Includes 2.5% COLA for GDC staff, except for CEO and Departmental Heads.

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted- 12/11/23 
 
#1223-02: AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE THE NOT-TO EXCEED AMOUNT FOR THE FINAL OPTION PERIOD 
OF CONTRACT WITH ERNST & YOUNG INFRASTRUCTURE ADVISORS, LLC (NO. MCP-18-002) 
 
In 2018, the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey (the “Port Authority”) issued a Request for 
Proposals on behalf of the Gateway Program Development Corporation (“GPDC”), seeking to procure one 
or more Financial Advisor(s) to assist GPDC with project development activities related to the Hudson 
Tunnel Project (“ HTP”). Ernst & Young Infrastructure Advisors, LLC was selected after a competitive 
procurement process based on the firm’s qualifications and experience, technical approach, and cost 
analysis, and a contract (P.A. Agreement No. MCP-18-002) was executed on December 18, 2018 (the “ EY 
Contract”). The EY Contract had a not-to-exceed amount of $8,100,000.00, and an initial term of three 
years, which could be extended for three additional one-year periods (“ Option Periods ”). The Port 
Authority subsequently exercised the first and second extensions of the EY Contract.  
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between New Jersey 
and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor (the "NEC"), the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) 
and the State of New York (“New York”) created the Gateway Development Commission ("GDC") through 
the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act 
(2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the " GDC Act"). GDC has assumed all 
responsibilities from GPDC for advancing the HTP.  
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out 
any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose which 
the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with … any 
individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, 
Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in part 
any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to which the 
Board deems appropriate.” By Resolution dated September 13, 2022, the Board delegated to the GDC 
CEO certain authorities, including the authority to approve contracts with a value not in excess of 
$300,000 and to carry out the Commission’s procurement processes in accordance with the Board-
adopted Procurement Guidelines (“ Resolution No. 0922-02 ”). Resolution No. 0922-02 also authorized 
the GDC CEO to further delegate these authorities to another officer or employee of GDC, which the 
GDC CEO so delegated to the GDC Senior Director, Procurement.    
On June 7, 2023, GDC and GPDC entered into an Assignment and Assumption Agreement whereby 
GPDC assigned all interests in certain agreements, including the EY Contract, to GDC, pursuant to Section 
II.G.3 of GDC’s Procurement Guidelines.  
Prior to the expiration of the second extension of the EY Contract on December 17, 2023, pursuant 
to GDC’s Procurement Guidelines and Resolution No. 0922-02, GDC and the Port Authority will enter into 
an Assignment Agreement, whereby the Port Authority will assign its interests in the EY Contract to GDC. 
 Pursuant to the Resolution No. 0922-02, following the execution of the Assignment Agreement, 
the GDC Chief Executive Officer or the GDC Senior Director, Procurement will exercise the third and final 
extension of the EY Contract pursuant to Section 2 thereof, with the final Option Period covering the time 
period of December 18, 2023 through December 17, 2024.  
The continuation of services during the final Option Period will require additional funding under 
the EY Contract beyond the original not-to-exceed amount. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted- 12/11/23 
 
2 
 
 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Commissioners 
Barbas, Bauer, Coscia, Dominguez, Grewal-Virk, and Rosen voting in favor: 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or the GDC Senior Director, Procurement is 
authorized to take any and all actions consistent with this resolution, and to authorize an increase in the 
EY Contract by an additional $3,255,000.00, inclusive of costs and expenses, and to take all other steps 
necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of the EY Contract. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted- 12/11/23 
 
#1223-03: AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO AND EXECUTE CAPITAL FUNDING AGREEMENT WITH 
NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION 
 
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between New Jersey 
and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor (the "NEC"), the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) 
and the State of New York (“New York”) created the Gateway Development Commission ("GDC") through 
the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act 
(2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out 
any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose which 
the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with the federal 
government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New York, with any 
local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, commission or authority of 
any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity 
or corporation, or with any one or more of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 
32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in part any 
power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to which the Board 
deems appropriate.” 
 
Accordingly, on February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation (“ Amtrak”), and GDC (collectively, the “ PDA Parties ”) entered into an Agreement (the 
“Project Development Agreement ” or “ PDA”) in order to establish their respective roles and 
responsibilities with respect to the funding, financing, right-of-way acquisition, procurement, delivery, and 
operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”). 
 
The PDA provides that GDC will enter into a funding agreement with Amtrak to facilitate Amtrak’s 
commitment to fund a portion of the delivery of the HTP. Consistent with the PDA requirements, GDC and 
Amtrak have negotiated the Capital Funding Agreement between Amtrak and Gateway Development 
Commission (the “Amtrak Capital Funding Agreement”). 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Commissioners 
Barbas, Bauer, Coscia, Dominguez, Grewal-Virk, and Rosen voting in favor: 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all actions consistent 
with this Resolution, and is directed to finalize the terms of the Amtrak Capital Funding Agreement and 
make, execute, and deliver in the name of and on behalf of GDC the Amtrak Capital Funding Agreement 
once finalized, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of the Amtrak 
Capital Funding Agreement once executed; and 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC CEO and applicable staff will report back to the GDC Board of 
Commissioners once GDC and Amtrak have executed the Amtrak Capital Funding Agreement. 