  
Gateway Development Commission 
Meeting of The Board  
Held In-Person and via Teleconference 
September 11, 2023 
 
MINUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Janine Bauer 
Amy Rosen 
 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
 
 
AMTRAK 
Anthony R. Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. Call to Order 
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 12:05 PM. Co-
Chair Grewal-Virk began the meeting with a moment of silence to mourn the lives lost on September 11, 
2001. 
 Co-Chair Grewal-Virk advised that as part of the transition from virtual meetings, public comments 
were being solicited both in-person and virtually, and audio of the meeting was being live-streamed from 
the Gateway Program website.  
 Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and 
that a form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway Program website for those who 
wished to submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
 Acting Secretary Caulfield conducted a roll call and confirmed that there was a quorum. Co-Chair 
Glen and Commissioner Barbas  participated virtually via teleconference during the entirety of the 
meeting.  Commissioner Dominguez was not in attendance. 
 Acting Secretary Caulfield  stated that adequate notice of today’s regular  public meeting of the 
Board of Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s 
enabling legislation. 
II. Executive Session 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk stated that the Board would enter Executive Session to discuss contract 
negotiations, personnel matters, and matters in which the release of information could impair a right to 
receive funds from the United States or other grantor.  Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Board would 
reconvene the public meeting at around 1 p.m. for an update on the Gateway Program. Co-Chair Grewal-
Virk motioned to enter into Executive Session, Vice Chair Coscia seconded the motion, and the motion 
was unanimously adopted at approximately 12:08 PM. 
III. Reconvening of Public Meeting 
The public meeting was reconvened by Co -Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 1:03 PM.  Acting 
Secretary Caulfield confirmed that , with the exception of Commissioner Dominguez,  all Commissioners 
were present  and there was a quorum , with Co-Chair Glen and Commissioner Barbas  participating 
virtually.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2 
 
IV. Report on Minutes of the May 2, 2023 Meeting 
Acting Secretary Caulfield reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of May 2, 2023 were 
delivered in electronic form by Acting Secretary Caulfield to the Governors of New York and New Jersey 
on May 9, 2023, and that the time for action by the Governors of New York and New Jersey expired at 
midnight on May 24, 2023, at which time the actions recorded in the Minutes went into full force and 
effect. 
V. Gateway Program Update 
At the start of the Gateway Program Update, Acting Secretary Caulfield noted for the record that 
the Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Kris Kolluri, has been recused from all matters involving the 
Tonnelle Avenue Construction Management Contract. As a result, Mr. Kolluri would leave the Board Room 
when that action item was presented, and when the action item was considered and voted on by the 
Board.  
Next, the Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Kris Kolluri,  as well as  GDC staff Jim Morrison, 
Anthony Gardner, and Megan Strickland, provided an update presentation on the Hudson Tunnel Project. 
Mr. Kolluri left the Board Room following his portion of the presentation.  
Following the presentation, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk thanked Mr. Kolluri, Mr. Morrison, Mr. Gardner, 
and Ms. Strickland for their presentation and noted the progress staff has made on advancing the Hudson 
Tunnel Project.   
VI. Public Comments 
Co-Chair Grewal -Virk announced that the Commission had solicited in -person and virtual 
comments from the public in advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for 
soliciting these comments was posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throu ghout 
today’s meeting. She also indicated that public attending in -person had the opportunity to sign up in 
advance or when arriving today.  
There were four (4) written comments received by 5:00 PM on September 10, 2023: 
 
 
Commenter  Topic 
Dave Rible, Executive Director Labor Relations, 
Utility, Transportation, Contractors Association 
Letter of support for Gateway Project 
Isabel Molina, New Jersey League of 
Conservation Voters 
Gateway Development Project 
Jerry Keenan, President, New Jersey Alliance for 
Action 
Construction and construction management 
contracts for the Tonnelle Avenue Bridge and 
Relocation Project. Partnership Agreement with 
the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey for 
the tunnel boring and framing. 
Joseph Clift, Individual Current HTP design must be changed to produce 
an increase in trans-Hudson train capacity without 
the expenditure of another $20+ billion for all of 
the Gateway Program! 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

3 
 
Co-Chair Grewal Virk noted that all written comments received on September 11 th before and 
during the meeting would be distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and filed 
in the Commission’s records after the meeting. GDC received written comments from the following  
additional individuals:   
 
The following individuals, who both also provided written comments,  provided in-person public 
comments during the September 11, 2023, Board Meeting: 
 
VII. Action Items 
#0923-01: Authorize Award of Contract GDC23 -001, Performance of  Expert Profe ssional 
Construction Management and Related  Technical Services for the Tonnelle Avenue Overhead 
Bridge and Utility Relocation Project 1 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have 
any comments on this Res olution. Co-Chair G rewal-Virk made a motion, and Commissioner Rosen 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#0923-02: Authorize Award of Contract GDC23 -002, Performance of  Construction Services for 
the Tonnelle Avenue Overhead Bridge and Utility Relocation Project 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have 
any comments on this Resolution.  Co-Chair Grewal-Virk made a motion, and Vice Chair Coscia seconded 
the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#0923-03: Approval of Market Case Estimate and Authorization to Enter  Into and Execute 
Funding Agreements for Tonnelle Avenue Overhead Bridge and Utility Relocation Project 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have 
any comments on this Resolution.  Co-Chair Grewal -Virk made a motion, and Commissioner Bauer 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
 
 
 
1 Mr. Kolluri left the Board Room during the consideration and voting on this Action Item.  
Commenter  Topic 
Brian Fritsch, Build Gateway Now Coalition  Support for all 11 Gateway Program project as an 
issue of economic vitality 
Jeff Heckman, US Bank Presentation 
Commenter  Topic 
Joseph Clift, Individual Current HTP design must be changed to produce 
an increase in trans-Hudson train capacity 
without the expenditure of another $20+ billion 
for all of the Gateway Program! 
Brian Fritsch, Build Gateway Now Coalition Support for all 11 Gateway Program project as an 
issue of economic vitality 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

4 
 
 
#0923-04: Authorization to Execute the Supporting or Executing Partner  Agreement with Port 
Authority of New York and New Jersey 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have 
any comments on this Resolution.  Co-Chair Grewal-Virk made a motion, and Vice Chair Coscia seconded 
the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#0923-05: Hudson Tunnel Project - Hudson River Ground Stabilization Project – Authorization 
to Execute Labor Agreements 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have 
any comments on this Resolution.  Co-Chair Grewal -Virk made a motion, and Commissioner Rosen 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#0923-06: Hudson Tunnel Project – Manhattan Tunnel Project – Authorization of Stipend 
Program 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have 
any comments on this Resolution.  Co-Chair Grewal -Virk made a motion, and Commissioner Bauer 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#0923-07: Appointment of the Chief Administrative Officer of the Gateway  Development 
Commission 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have 
any comments on this Resolution. Co-Chair Grewal-Virk made a motion, and Vice Chair Coscia seconded 
the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
VIII. Adjournment 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that there was no further business to conduct, and Co-Chair Grewal-
Virk then requested a motion to adjourn the meeting . Upon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair 
Grewal-Virk and seconded by Vice Chair Coscia, the meeting was adjourned at approximately 1:36 PM.  
 
Respectfully submitted, 
 
/s/ Edmund Caulfield    
Edmund Caulfield, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted- 9/11/23 
 
#0923-01: AUTHORIZE AWARD OF CONTRACT GDC23-001, PERFORMANCE OF EXPERT PROFESSIONAL 
CONSTRUCTION MANAGEMENT AND RELATED TECHNICAL SERVICES FOR THE TONNELLE AVENUE 
OVERHEAD BRIDGE AND UTILITY RELOCATION PROJECT 
 
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between the State 
of New Jersey (“ New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“ New York”) and throughout the Northeast 
Corridor (the "NEC"), New Jersey and New York  created the Gateway Development Commission ("GDC") 
through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the Gateway Development 
Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out 
any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose which 
the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with the federal 
government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New York, with any 
local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, commission or authority of 
any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity 
or corporation, or with any one or more of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 
32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in part any 
power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to which the Board 
deems appropriate.” 
 
Accordingly, on February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation (“ Amtrak”), and GDC (collectively, the “ PDA Parties ”) entered into an Agreement (the 
“Project Development Agreement ” or “ PDA”) in order to establish their respective roles and 
responsibilities with respect to the funding, financing, right-of-way acquisition, procurement, delivery, and 
operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”). 
 
As further described in the PDA, the HTP has been organized into certain work packages, which 
may be updated or changed from time-to-time.  The Tonnelle Avenue bridge and utility relocation project 
(the “Tonnelle Ave. Project ”) is a critical early work package of the HTP, and involves the relocation of 
utilities and the construction of a new roadway bridge for Tonnelle Avenue in North Bergen, New Jersey. 
The new roadway bridge will be located immediately above a new railroad right-of-way, which will allow 
for a connection to the new tunnel portal at the western slope of the New Jersey Palisades, and also 
provide access between the staging sites on either side of Tonnelle Avenue. 
The Tonnelle Ave. Project has been assigned a proposed Market Case Estimate of $47,300,000.00, 
and has been selected for a $25 million grant award from the U.S. Department of Transportation under 
the Rebuilding American Infrastructure with Sustainability and Equity Grant Program, and $22,300,000.00 
in collective funding from New York, New Jersey, and Amtrak pursuant to funding agreements with GDC.   
On February 9, 2023, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey issued on behalf of GDC a 
publicly-advertised, federally compliant Request for Proposals for a Small Business Enterprise consultant 
to provide expert professional construction management and related technical services for the Tonnelle 
Ave. Project. Proposals were received from sixteen (16) responsive and responsible firms, and reviewed 
by an Evaluation Panel consisting of representatives of GDC, NJ Transit and Amtrak. The Evaluation Panel 
selected Naik Consulting Group, P.C. through a qualifications-based selection model, and subsequently 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted- 9/11/23 
 
2 
 
negotiated a cost agreement in the amount not to exceed $5,457,162.10 (together, with the Contract 
Documents issued as part of the RFP process, referred to as “Contract GDC23-001”).   
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Commissioners 
Barbas, Bauer, Coscia, Glen, Grewal-Virk, and Rosen voting in favor: 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Program Officer (as authorized designee of the GDC Chief Executive 
Officer for purposes of the procurement, award and management of this contract) is authorized to enter 
into Contract GDC23-001 with Naik Consulting Group, P.C., in an amount not to exceed $5,457,162.10, 
plus five percent for contingencies, subject to the availability of funds.  
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Program Officer (as authorized designee of the GDC Chief Executive 
Officer for purposes of the procurement, award and management of this contract) is authorized to take 
any and all actions consistent with this resolution, and to make, execute, and deliver in the name and on 
behalf of GDC, Contract GDC23-001, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms and 
conditions of Contract GDC23-001. 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Program Officer (as authorized designee of the GDC Chief Executive 
Officer for purposes of the procurement, award and management of this contract) is authorized, within 
the total authorized amount for Contract GDC 23-001 in accordance with the terms of this Resolution, to 
take all procurement actions necessary to effectuate the work that is subject of Contract GDC23-001, and 
take any other actions that may be required to effectuate and enforce the terms of Contract GDC23-001. 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted - 9/11/23 
 
 
#0923-02: AUTHORIZE AWARD OF CONTRACT GDC23-002, PERFORMANCE OF CONSTRUCTION SERVICES 
FOR THE TONNELLE AVENUE OVERHEAD BRIDGE AND UTILITY RELOCATION PROJECT 
 
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between New Jersey 
and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor (the "NEC"), the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) 
and the State of New York (“New York”) created the Gateway Development Commission ("GDC") through 
the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act 
(2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out 
any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose which 
the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with the federal 
government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New York, with any 
local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, commission or authority of 
any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity 
or corporation, or with any one or more of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 
32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in part any 
power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to which the Board 
deems appropriate.” 
 
Accordingly, on February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation (“ Amtrak”), and GDC (collectively, the “ PDA Parties ”) entered into an Agreement (the 
“Project Development Agreement ” or “ PDA”) in order to establish their respective roles and 
responsibilities with respect to the funding, financing, right-of-way acquisition, procurement, delivery, and 
operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”). 
 
As further described in the PDA, the HTP has been organized into certain work packages, which 
may be updated or changed from time-to-time.  The Tonnelle Avenue bridge and utility relocation project 
(the “Tonnelle Ave. Project ”) is a critical early work package of the HTP, and involves the relocation of 
utilities and the construction of a new roadway bridge for Tonnelle Avenue in North Bergen, New Jersey. 
The new roadway bridge will be located immediately above a new railroad right-of-way, which will allow 
for a connection to the new tunnel portal at the western slope of the New Jersey Palisades, and also 
provide access between the staging sites on either side of Tonnelle Avenue. 
The Tonnelle Ave. Project has been assigned a proposed Market Case Estimate of $47,300,000.00, 
and has been selected for a $25 million grant award from the U.S. Department of Transportation under 
the Rebuilding American Infrastructure with Sustainability and Equity Grant Program, and $22,300,000.00 
in collective funding from New York, New Jersey, and Amtrak pursuant to funding agreements with GDC.   
On February 9, 2023, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (“Port Authority”) issued on 
behalf of GDC a publicly-advertised, federally compliant Invitation to Bid (“IFB”) for a low bid construction 
contract for the Tonnelle Ave. Project. Twelve (12) sealed bids were received by Port Authority 
procurement staff, with Conti Civil, LLC submitting the lowest bid. Port Authority procurement staff 
conducted appropriate diligence to verify the low bid submitted by Conti Civil, LLC was responsive and 
responsible. The bid submitted by Conti Civil, LLC was in an amount not to exceed $28,584,120.00 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted - 9/11/23 
 
2 
 
(together, with the Contract Documents issued as part of the IFB process, referred to as “Contract GDC23-
002”).   
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Commissioners 
Barbas, Bauer, Coscia, Glen, Grewal-Virk, and Rosen voting in favor: 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to enter into GDC Contract GDC23-
002 with Conti Civil, LLC, in an amount not to exceed $28,584,120.00, plus five percent for contingencies, 
subject to the availability of funds.  
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all actions consistent 
with this Resolution, and to make, execute, and deliver in the name and on behalf of GDC, Contract GDC23-
002, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of Contract GDC23-
002. 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized, within the total authorized amount 
for Contract GDC 23-002 in accordance with the terms of this Resolution, to take all procurement actions 
necessary to effectuate the work that is subject of Contract GDC23-002, and take any other actions that 
may be required to effectuate and enforce the terms of Contract GDC23-002. 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted - 9/11/23 
 
#0923-03: APPROVAL OF MARKET CASE ESTIMATE AND AUTHORIZATION TO ENTER INTO AND EXECUTE 
FUNDING AGREEMENTS FOR TONNELLE AVENUE OVERHEAD BRIDGE AND UTILITY RELOCATION 
PROJECT 
 
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between New Jersey 
and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor (the "NEC"), the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) 
and the State of New York (“New York”) created the Gateway Development Commission ("GDC") through 
the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act 
(2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out 
any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose which 
the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with the federal 
government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New York, with any 
local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, commission or authority of 
any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity 
or corporation, or with any one or more of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 
32:36-8(e). 
On February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
(“Amtrak”), and the Gateway Development Commission (“GDC”) (collectively, the “PDA Parties”) entered 
into an Agreement (the “Project Development Agreement” or “PDA”) in order to establish their respective 
roles and responsibilities with respect to the funding, financing, right-of-way acquisition, procurement, 
delivery, and operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”). 
 
As further described in the PDA, the HTP has been organized into certain work packages, which 
may be updated or changed from time-to-time.  The Tonnelle Avenue bridge and utility relocation project 
(the “ Tonnelle Ave. Project ”) is a critical early component of the HTP, and involves the relocation of 
utilities and the construction of a new roadway bridge for Tonnelle Avenue in North Bergen, New Jersey. 
The new roadway bridge will be located immediately above a new railroad right-of-way, which will allow 
for a connection to the new tunnel portal at the western slope of the New Jersey Palisades, and also 
provide access between the staging sites on either side of Tonnelle Avenue. 
In June 2023, GDC was notified it was selected for a $25 million grant for the Tonnelle Ave. Project 
by the U.S. Department of Transportation under the Rebuilding American Infrastructure with Sustainability 
and Equity Grant Program (the “ RAISE Grant”). GDC has calculated the Market Case Estimate for the 
Tonnelle Ave. Project based on bid pricing in accordance with the terms of the PDA, which is attached 
hereto as Exhibit A. The Market Case Estimate is $47,300,000.00, and includes all final negotiated costs 
and contingencies related to the construction and delivery of the Tonnelle Ave. Project.   
The Market Case Estimate for the Tonnelle Ave. Project will also serve as the basis for funding 
agreements that GDC will enter into with New York, New Jersey, and Amtrak, pursuant to the PDA, so that 
the local share funding that formed the basis of the RAISE Grant application can be applied to the Tonnelle 
Ave. Project. 
GDC will be entering into separate funding agreements with each of New York, New Jersey, and 
Amtrak (collectively, the “ Funding Agreements”) pursuant to which each of New York, New Jersey, and 
Amtrak will provide funding for the Tonnelle Ave. Project in accordance with their obligations as set forth 
in the PDA. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted - 9/11/23 
 
2 
 
 
Section 3.06 of the Bylaws of the Commission provides that the GDC Board of Commissioners (the 
“Board”) “may delegate in whole or in part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, 
in each case to the extent to which the Board deems appropriate.”  
 
It is the intention of the Board that in order to enable the efficient and timely effectuation of the 
Gateway Program, it is necessary to delegate to the GDC Chief Executive Officer the authority to take 
certain categories of actions with respect to the Funding Agreements for the Tonnelle Ave. Project, in 
addition to the authority already delegated to the GDC Chief Executive Officer in the Bylaws and previous 
Resolutions approved by the Board. 
 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Commissioners 
Barbas, Bauer, Coscia, Glen, Grewal-Virk, and Rosen voting in favor: 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Market Case 
Estimate for the Tonnelle Ave. Project. 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all actions consistent 
with this resolution to negotiate, authorize, and approve the Funding Agreements, including all 
instruments, agreements, certifications and all other documents as may be required or contemplated by 
the foregoing, and to enter into or execute the same on behalf of GDC, and to take all other steps necessary 
to comply with the terms and conditions of the Funding Agreements. 
 
RESOLVED, that GDC Chief Executive Officer and applicable staff will report back to the GDC Board 
of Commissioners once GDC and the State of New York, State of New Jersey, and Amtrak have executed 
the Funding Agreements. 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted - 9/11/23 
 
3 
 
EXHIBIT A 
MARKET CASE ESTIMATE 
 
 
Tonnelle Avenue Bridge and Utility Relocation Project 
(“Tonnelle Ave. Project”) 
Market Case Estimate 
  
Uses Estimate ($M) 
Professional Services, Utility Relocations, and 
Other Services 
$12.1 
Construction  $28.6 
Contingency $6.6   
Tonnelle Ave. Package Market Case Estimate* $47.3 
 
*Does not include expenditures related to Tonnelle Ave. Project incurred prior to the adoption of the 
Market Case Estimate.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted - 9/11/23 
 
#0923-04: AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE THE SUPPORTING OR EXECUTING PARTNER AGREEMENT WITH 
PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY 
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between New Jersey 
and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor (the “NEC”), New Jersey and New York created the 
Gateway Development Commission (“ GDC”) through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state 
codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et 
seq.) (collectively, the “GDC Act”). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to “enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out any 
power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose which the 
commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with the federal 
government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New York, with any local 
government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, commission or authority of any one 
or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, 
or with any one or more of them.” 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e).  
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in part any 
power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to which the Board 
deems appropriate.”  
Accordingly, on February 3, 2023, the State of New Jersey, the State of New York, the National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation (“Amtrak”), and the GDC (the “PDA Parties”) entered into an Agreement 
(the “ Project Development Agreement ” or “ PDA”) in order to establish their respective roles and 
responsibilities with respect to the funding, financing, right-of-way acquisition, procurement, delivery, 
and operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”). 
As further described in the PDA, the delivery of individual work packages of the HTP may be 
implemented pursuant to agreements between the GDC and certain “Supporting or Executing Partners” 
as defined in Section 3.02(a) of the PDA (hereinafter “SEPs”).  
Pursuant to the terms of the PDA, GDC and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey (“Port 
Authority”) have negotiated a SEP Agreement in order to establish their roles and responsibilities with 
respect to certain services that Port Authority will provide in support of the tunnelling and heavy civil work 
of the HTP (the “ Port Authority SEP Agreement ”), an execution version of which is attached hereto as 
Exhibit A. 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Commissioners 
Barbas, Bauer, Coscia, Glen, Grewal-Virk, and Rosen voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all actions 
consistent with this Resolution, and to make, execute, and deliver in the name and on behalf of GDC the 
attached copy of the Port Authority SEP Agreement, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with 
the terms and conditions, provide day-to-day direction of the contemplated services, initiate all aspects 
of its dispute resolution procedures, and take any other action necessary to effectuate the Port Authority 
SEP Agreement. 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted - 9/11/23 
 
EXHIBIT A 
PORT AUTHORITY SEP AGREEMENT 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION 
Subject to the Approval of the GDC and Port Authority Boards of Commissioners 
 
 
 
 
SUPPORTING OR EXECUTING PARTNER 
AGREEMENT 
 
for 
 
CONSTRUCTION SERVICES FOR THE TUNNELING AND HEAVY CIVIL 
WORK FOR THE NEW HUDSON RIVER TUNNEL 
By and between 
 GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION  
and 
THE PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW 
JERSEY 
 
 
 
Dated as of [●], 2023 
 
 


=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 1 - 
 
 
SUPPORTING OR EXECUTING PARTNER AGREEMENT 
This Supporting or Executing Partner Agreement (this “ Agreement”), dated as of [●], 2023 (the 
“Effective Date”), is made by and between: 
GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION , a public authority and a government 
sponsored authority by the State of New Jersey and the State of New York (“GDC”); 
and 
THE PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK AND NEW JERSEY , a body corporate and 
politic, created by compact between the States of New York and New Jersey with the consent of 
Congress (the “Port Authority”). 
GDC and Port Authority are collectively referred to herein as “Parties” or in the singular each as 
“Party” as the context requires. The Agreement is intended by GDC to constitute a “Supporting 
or Executing Partner Agreement” under the PDA defined below and GDC considers the Port 
Authority to be a “SEP” thereunder. 
WHEREAS: 
A. To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail 
infrastructure between New Jersey and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor (the 
“NEC”), the State of New Jersey (“ New Jersey ”) and the State of New York (“ New York ”) 
created GDC through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the Gateway 
Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Sess. Laws ch. 108 (McKinney) and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, 
et seq.) (collectively, the “GDC Act”); 
B. The National Railroad Passenger Corporation (“ Amtrak”) owns and 
maintains various segments of the NEC rail line that extends between Washington, D.C. and 
Boston, MA, maintains the segment of the NEC between Washington, D.C. and New York City, 
and operates intercity passenger rail service over the NEC; 
C. Intercity and commuter passenger rail service and infrastructure are vital to 
the economies of New Jersey and New York; 
D. Due to the passage of time and damage caused by natural disasters, existing 
intercity passenger rail and commuter rail infrastructure, including the existing rail tunnel between 
New York and New Jersey, are at risk of system failures that could result in prolonged service 
disruptions that would severely damage the economies of New Jersey, New York, and many other 
participants in the national economy; 
E. New Jersey, New York, Amtrak, and GDC share a common concern to 
preserve the functionality and strengthen the resiliency of the intercity and commuter passenger 
rail infrastructure between New Jersey and New York, including passenger rail infrastructure 
owned, controlled, or utilized by Amtrak, and further, recognize the urgent need to undertake 
projects necessary to rehabilitate intercity and commuter passenger rail infrastructure under the 
Hudson River, maintain current levels of intercity and commuter rail service between New York 
and New Jersey, and provide additional reliability, safety, and security as well as create redundant 
passenger rail capacity under the Hudson River; 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 2 - 
 
F. Accordingly, on or about February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, 
Amtrak, and GDC (the “ PDA Parties ”) entered into the Project Development Agreement for 
Hudson Tunnel Project (the “Project Development Agreement” or “PDA”) in order to establish 
their respective roles and responsibilities with respect to the funding, financing, right-of-way 
acquisition, procurement, delivery, and operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”); 
G. Although not a party to the PDA, the Port Authority expects to render 
certain financial support to GDC, which support is not the subject of this Agreement and will be 
separately addressed in documentation required for federal Railroad Rehabilitation and 
Improvement Financing received by GDC; 
H. As further described in the PDA, the delivery of certain work packages of 
the HTP (the “HTP Packages”) may be implemented pursuant to agreements between GDC and 
certain “Supporting or Executing Partners” as defined in Section 3.02(a) of the PDA (hereinafter 
“SEPs”), which SEPs may include the Port Authority; 
I. As part of the HTP, a new two-tube tunnel is to be constructed under the 
Hudson River (the “ Hudson River Tunnel ”), in order to subsequently facilitate repair of the 
existing North River Tunnel, and to permanently increase the number of NEC rail tracks under the 
Hudson River from two (2) to four (4); 
J. The PDA requires the PDA Parties (which do not include the Port 
Authority) to ensure that the HTP meets overall performance goals of: (a) supporting the existing 
level of service as of the Effective Date of 24 trains per hour (“ TPH”) during the North River 
Tunnel rehabilitation, (b) supporting a doubling of peak hour capacity to 48 TPH or more following 
completion of other infrastructure improvements such as those contemplated in the Gateway 
Program (as defined in the GDC Act), and (c) supporting the provision of direct NJ TRANSIT 
service from all NJ TRANSIT rail lines, except for the Atlantic City Rail Line, including 
compatibility with existing NJ TRANSIT rail equipment and known future capital investments in 
rolling stock (e.g., multi-level multiple unit rolling stock), and fixed infrastructure (e.g., Gateway 
loop tracks and associated rail configurations), to the extent that such requirements are not 
inconsistent with the Final Environmental Impact Statement and Record of Decision from FRA 
and FTA; 
K. By resolution dated [●], 2023, the GDC Board of Commissioners (the 
“GDC Board”) has authorized GDC to enter into a SEP Agreement with Port Authority to provide 
contractual advisory construction management services, project management support services, 
project administration services, and field support services (“ CM Services”), technical assistance 
and advisory services (“ Advisory Services ”), and certain code compliance and enforcement 
functions (“ Code Actions ”; together with the CM Services and the Advisory Services, the 
“Services”) associated with the tunneling and heavy civil contracts to build the core and shell of 
the new Hudson River Tunnel and ground stabilization and improvement work in the Hudson 
River in accordance with the Final Environmental Impact Statement and Record of Decision (the 
“Work”), which shall be organized into multiple HTP Packages;  
L. The Work is currently organized into four related HTP Packages: the 
Palisades Tunnel, the Manhattan Tunnel, the Hudson River Ground Stabilization, and the Hudson 
River Tunnel; and  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 3 - 
 
M. GDC and Port Authority now desire to enter into this Agreement in order to 
establish their roles and responsibilities with respect to the delivery of the Work. 
NOW, THEREFORE , in consideration of the covenants and conditions herein contained, the 
Parties hereby agree with each other as follows: 
ARTICLE I. 
DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF INTERPRETATION 
Section 1.01 Definitions. Defined terms in this Agreement and in the Appendix hereto, which 
may be identified by the capitalization of the first letter of each principal word thereof, have the 
meanings assigned to them in Exhibit A. 
Section 1.02 Rules of Interpretation. 
(a) In this Agreement, except to the extent that the context otherwise requires: 
(i) words and phrases not otherwise defined in this Agreement (A) that have well-known 
technical, insurance, or construction industry meanings shall be construed pursuant to 
such recognized meanings, and (B) of an accounting or financial nature shall be 
construed pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles in the United States, 
in each case considering the context in which such words and phrases are used; 
(ii) references to any document or agreement, including this Agreement, shall be deemed 
to include references to such document or agreement as amended, supplemented, or 
replaced from time to time in accordance with its terms and (where applicable) subject 
to compliance with the requirements set forth herein and therein; 
(iii) references to an entity shall include its successors and permitted assigns; 
(iv) references to time and dates shall be deemed to refer to Eastern Time; 
(v) reference to any applicable law shall be deemed to include reference to such law as 
amended or supplemented from time to time; 
(vi) unless the context shall otherwise require, the words “hereto,” “herein,” “hereof,” and 
other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole; 
(vii) the use herein of the words “include” or “including,” when following any general 
statement, term or matter, shall not be construed to limit such statement, term, or 
matter to the specific items or matters set forth immediately following such word or 
to similar items or matters, whether or not non-limiting language (such as “without 
limitation” or “but not limited to” or words of similar import) is used with reference 
thereto, but rather shall be deemed to refer to all other items or matters that fall within 
the broadest possible scope of such general statement, term or matter; 
(viii) the term “promptly” shall mean as soon as reasonably practicable under the facts and 
circumstances at the time; and 
(ix) headings are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of this 
Agreement. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 4 - 
 
(b) The relevant terms of this Agreement shall not be construed against the Party that prepared 
them, and the Parties waive any law with contrary effect that would otherwise be applicable 
in connection with the construction and interpretation of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE II. 
DEFINITIONS AND RULES OF INTERPRETATION 
Section 2.01 GDC. GDC shall be responsible for achieving completion of the Hudson River 
Tunnel, including the following: 
(a) ultimate responsibility for the delivery of the Work, and more broadly the HTP; 
(b) Oversight (as defined in Section 2.02 of the Services provided by Port Authority); 
(c) securing all necessary funding for the Work, and, more broadly, the HTP; 
(d) chairing the Senior Project Coordinating Committee and Technical Standards Committee; 
(e) identifying with specificity the federal, state, and local codes (“Applicable Codes”) to be 
utilized by the Port Authority in its Code Actions under Article X; 
(f) enforcing and adjudicating code- and standard-related disputes and deviations from the 
Applicable Code, with the assistance of the Port Authority as provided for under this 
Agreement; 
(g) development of the Design Standards and Specifications for the Work; 
(h) procurement of all HTP Contractors related to the Work, including any procurement for 
which the Port Authority is providing assistance in accordance with Section 4.05; 
(i) maintenance of the Executive Project Schedule for the HTP in accordance with Section 
5.01 of the PDA; 
(j) maintenance of the overall HTP project budget (“ Project Budget”) in accordance with 
Article IX of the PDA; 
(k) project reporting regarding the Work and the HTP necessary to satisfy all applicable federal 
funding and financing requirements applicable to the HTP; 
(l) in its capacity as HTP project sponsor and NEPA sponsor, ultimate responsibility for all 
NEPA compliance activities, including mitigation commitments, related to the Work; 
(m) acquisition of permits and third party agreements required for the delivery of the Work; 
(n) procurement of project insurance; 
(o) engagement with labor constituencies and ensuring compliance of HTP Contractors with 
applicable labor laws; 
(p) overall management of the HTP Risk Register; 
(q) management of HTP document access and control; and 
(r) resolution of HTP Contractor disputes. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 5 - 
 
As discussed in this Agreement, GDC may request that Port Authority provide technical assistance 
and advisory services in connection with tasks (e) through (r) above under GDC’s direction; 
however, GDC shall remain ultimately responsibility for the Work and each of the matters for 
which it is assigned responsibility above. 
Section 2.02 Port Authority . Port Authority shall perform the Services  to assist GDC in 
performing the Work. GDC shall comply with all requirements of the PDA in order to permit the 
Port Authority to perform its obligations in this Agreement. Subject to the requirements in Article 
VII, Services shall include, but not be limited to, the following responsibilities and activities 
associated with the Work: 
(a) Perform CM Services for day-to-day support to GDC in the oversight of construction 
activities for, and workmanship of, the elements of the Work; 
(b) assist with procurements for the Work and the Delivery Partner, as discussed in Article 
IV hereof; 
(c) assist with development, monitoring, and coordination of the budget (the “Work Budget”) 
and schedule (the “ Work Schedule”) for the Work, as discussed in Article VII hereof 
(including each of the multiple separate contracts comprising the Work); 
(d) support GDC with monitoring NEPA compliance for the Work, as discussed in Section 
8.01 hereof; 
(e) assist GDC with planning requirements for the Work, as further discussed in Section 9.03 
(Risk Register Management ), Section 9.05 ( Project Management Plan ), Section 9.06 
(Force Account), and Section 9.07 ( Development of Rail Activation/Systems Integration 
Plan); 
(f) utilize the methodology provided by GDC for the management and control of 
documentation associated with the Work, as discussed in Section 9.08 hereof; 
(g) support GDC as requested in coordination with third parties, including NJ TRANSIT and 
Amtrak to the extent necessary for system integration with other aspects of HTP, including 
with respect to design and specifications as further discussed in Article VI hereof (which 
shall not constitute Code Actions), and on activities necessary to interconnect with the 
other HTP Packages on both termini of the elements of the Work, as further discussed in 
Section 3.01 and Section 9.07 hereof, in all cases at the direction of GDC; 
(h) as to CM Services, recommend to GDC the certification of milestone completion items 
when appropriate, to allow prompt payment of the HTP Contractors by GDC upon 
completion of discrete objectives in accordance with the provisions of the HTP Contract 
Documents and all applicable federal funding requirements, and in accordance with 
Section 9.01 and Section 9.04 hereof; 
(i) coordinate its Code Actions with activities of the HTP Contractor’s architect/engineer of 
record in connection with project inspections and certifications as further discussed in 
Article XII hereof; 
(j) facilitate coordination between the HTP Contractor and GDC for obtaining a certificate of 
substantial compliance with Applicable Codes or final completion and/or certificate of 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 6 - 
 
partial compliance with Applicable Codes (such certificates hereinafter referred to as 
“Certificates of Compliance”) of the elements of the Work as further discussed in Section 
10.01 hereof, and arranging handover of the elements of the Work upon its completion, as 
further discussed in Article XII hereof; 
(k) conduct scheduled periodic meetings with, and delivery of regular reports to GDC (with 
copies to the SPCC as and when requested by GDC), Amtrak, NJ TRANSIT, and the HTP 
Contractors, as appropriate (and as directed by GDC), to report on the progress of the 
Services and the elements of the Work and provide a forum for discussion of any concerns 
of such parties, as further discussed in Section 3.06 hereof; 
(l) as to Code Actions, review plans and design documents and construction documentation, 
as requested by GDC at the completion of 60 percent and 100 percent design level 
milestones as determined by GDC (to the extent the Port Authority determines such plans 
and design documents and construction documentation are in compliance with Applicable 
Codes, such plans and design documents and construction documentation are hereinafter 
referred to as the “Compliant Plans”); 
(m) as to Code Actions, audit portions of the Work upon milestone completion (following 
certification by the engineer of record for that portion of Work) to ascertain whether that 
portion of Work complies with Applicable Codes or, if not found to be in compliance, to 
notify GDC as to the manner in which the Work fails to comply with the Applicable 
Codes; 
(n) at the request of an HTP Contractor or GDC, upon such entity’s certification that the Work 
(or a portion thereof) has been completed and if the Port Authority determines it to be in 
accordance with Applicable Codes and consistent with the Compliant Plans, to issue a 
Certificate of Compliance to that effect, as further discussed in Article X hereof; 
(o) assist the GDC in interface coordination between packages as may be necessary, including 
through advice given in the context of participation on the Senior Project Coordinating 
Committee and Technical Standards Committee;  
(p) provide other technical assistance and advisory services that are mutually agreed upon 
between the Parties as may from time to time be required to support GDC in the Work; 
and 
(q) coordinate and cooperate with any designer or engineer whose work has been procured 
with respect to the Work as designated by GDC (the “HTP Designer”) at the direction of 
GDC, in the HTP Designer’s roles in connection with the Work. 
In its performance of the Services, Port Authority will report to GDC and take day-to-day direction 
from GDC (“ Oversight”). GDC may at any time, in its sole and absolute discretion, overrule a 
Port Authority decision or determination relating to the Work, or rescind any delegation of 
authority to Port Authority under this Agreement; provided however, that overruling a 
determination of the Port Authority regarding Applicable Codes under sections (l), (m) or (n) 
above or in Article X will constitute a deviation from the Applicable Code and GDC shall have 
full responsibility for permitting such deviation from the Applicable Code pursuant to the PDA. 
All such decisions regarding deviations from the Applicable Code shall be documented and 
approved by GDC in accordance with the PDA. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 7 - 
 
Section 2.03 Detailed Division of Responsibilities . To the extent not specifically stated in this 
Agreement, and prior to the adoption of any Market Case Estimate, the Parties will develop a 
detailed and specific scope of services delineating the interaction between overall programmatic 
functions performed by the GDC and project level functions as assigned to the Port Authority in 
Section 2.02 hereof and to clarify the roles and responsibilities of the Parties and other stakeholders 
and to avoid functional overlap. To perform these functions, as documented in this Agreement, 
GDC and the Port Authority may each rely on the DP (as defined herein) as required. GDC will 
work with the Port Authority to ensure that task orders developed by GDC for program-level 
functions, and task orders developed by Port Authority for project-specific functions are consistent 
in their approach and adequately match the specific scope of services contemplated to be assigned 
to the Port Authority, with staffing plans and budgets revised from time to time accordingly.  
ARTICLE III. 
INTERFACE COORDINATION 
Section 3.01 Interface Coordination. The Parties acknowledge that HTP is a multi-package, 
complex engineering and construction project which requires significant interface between 
packages for successful delivery and completion. Port Authority, in its performance of Services, 
will participate in, and coordinate closely with, GDC’s other SEPs through the Senior Project 
Coordinating Committee and the Technical Standards Committee, and otherwise assist GDC in 
supporting interface coordination between the Work and other HTP Packages. The Port Authority 
and GDC agree that the Port Authority will not provide any of the Services in connection with any 
other HTP Package except as specifically required herein or otherwise agreed to between the 
Parties in writing. 
Section 3.02 Senior Project Coordinating Committee. 
(a) SPCC Membership. Port Authority will participate in the Senior Project Coordinating 
Committee (“SPCC”) established under the PDA to coordinate parties engaged in the Work 
and other stakeholders with respect to the HTP Packages as directed by GDC to assist GDC 
in effectuating the Work; provided that the Port Authority’s participation will be limited to 
matters related to completion of the Work and any interface coordination with the HTP 
related to the Work. If requested to do so by GDC, the Port Authority will provide such 
information as the SPCC may reasonably request regarding the status of Code Actions. 
(b) The Port Authority SPCC Representative. Within thirty (30) days of the Effective Date, 
Port Authority shall designate one (1) executive level representative to the SPCC (the “Port 
Authority SPCC Representative ”). The Port Authority SPCC Representative (or 
designated Alternative Representative) shall attend all meetings of the SPCC and 
participate, as Port Authority deems appropriate, in the deliberations of the SPCC as 
described in subsection (a). 
Section 3.03 Technical Standards Committee. 
(a) Membership. Port Authority agrees to participate in the Technical Standards Committee 
(“TSC”) established under the PDA to facilitate the resolution of technical issues among 
the parties engaged in the Work and other stakeholders with respect to the HTP Packages 
as directed by GDC to assist GDC in effectuating the Work; provided that the Port 
Authority’s participation will be limited to matters related to completion of the Work and 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 8 - 
 
shall not include making determinations as to Applicable Codes or deviations therefrom 
(although, in rendering CM Services or Advisory Services, the Port Authority may assist 
GDC in the consideration of such matters by the TSC). 
(b) Port Authority TSC Representative . Within thirty (30) days of the Effective Date, Port 
Authority shall designate one (1) representative to the TSC and one (1) non-voting alternate 
representative who shall have the full powers of the TSC representative in the event the 
representative is unavailable (together the “ Port Authority TSC Representative”). The 
Port Authority TSC Representative shall attend all meetings of the TSC and participate, as 
Port Authority deems appropriate, in the deliberations of the TSC as described in subsection 
(a). 
Section 3.04 Delivery Partner. To the extent Port Authority requires additional staff or services 
to augment its staff, the Port Authority shall utilize the GDC’s delivery partner or GDC’s otherwise 
designated program management (“ DP”) consultant to, at Port Authority’s direction, staff its 
performance of the Services, as Port Authority deems appropriate, and to assist the Port Authority 
in interface coordination between the Work and other packages of the project and to provide other 
services using a platform that is common and consistent among the GDC and all SEPs, as further 
discussed in Section 4.04 herein. All costs and expenses of the DP will be paid by GDC under its 
arrangements with the DP and the Port Authority will have no obligation for such costs and 
expenses. Subject to the requirements of Section 4.04 herein, staffing plans for the DP’s support 
of the Port Authority’s performance of the Work shall be submitted in advance by DP for review 
and approval by Port Authority and GDC, and the DP staff so provided shall perform tasks directed 
by the Port Authority in furtherance of the Services. The Parties acknowledge that the services 
performed by the DP staff under this Section 3.04 will be functionally separate from work on the 
HTP performed for GDC (and under its direction) by the DP (including work awarded to the DP). 
Section 3.05 Port Authority Integrity Obligations . The GDC Inspector General will have chief 
responsibility for providing objective oversight to promote the economy, efficiency, effectiveness, 
and integrity of the Services and the Work, including performance by the DP staff. The Port 
Authority Inspector General will be authorized to review the integrity of the performance of the 
Work by the Port Authority employees and any contractors engaged directly by Port Authority in 
accordance with Section 4.05. The Port Authority will coordinate its oversight of Port Authority 
related to the Work with the GDC Inspector General in accordance with the GDC Act and GDC 
Bylaws. For the avoidance of doubt, the Port Authority Inspector General will not have oversight 
over the Work Contractors. 
Section 3.06 Meetings. Port Authority agrees to comply with reasonable requests from GDC to 
attend GDC Board meetings, advisory board meetings, committee meetings, conferences, or other 
meetings as reasonable and necessary to support the Work, as well as the interface between the 
Work and other HTP Packages. 
ARTICLE IV. 
PROCUREMENT 
Section 4.01 Contracts for the Work. GDC will be responsible for procurement of all third-party 
services related to the Work or that are otherwise necessary to facilitate the Work, including those 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 9 - 
 
of construction contractors, design-build contractors, engineers, and consultants, as applicable 
(each a “Work Contractor”, and collectively the “Work Contractors”). 
Section 4.02 Procurement Documents. 
(a) The Port Authority shall advise GDC in the substantive preparation of Procurement 
Documents that are reasonably likely to result in bids or proposals which will further the 
Work. The Port Authority agrees to promptly provide its comments within the reasonable 
time period as set forth by GDC or the HTP Contracts, as applicable. The purpose of the 
Port Authority review is to effectuate the Work, including any interface coordination of 
the Work with the HTP, and no other functional review of the Procurement Documents is 
required (i.e., by Port Authority legal counsel or engineering department). 
(b) GDC shall respond to and address any comments to its draft Procurement Documents 
provided by Port Authority as it believes appropriate; provided that GDC shall have final 
approval authority over the terms and conditions of GDC’s Procurement Documents, 
including, for the avoidance of doubt, any forms of agreement incorporated therein. 
Section 4.03 Evaluation. 
(a) The Port Authority will be invited to, and shall participate as Port Authority deems 
appropriate, the evaluation of respondents to procurements for the Work. The Port 
Authority will name an evaluation panel participant having requisite expertise related to 
the procurement for the Work. Port Authority acknowledges and agrees that all evaluation 
panel participants will be required to comply with any required or customary rules and 
procedures governing the confidentiality and the integrity of the bid process with respect 
to procurement of the Work Contractors, and such personnel may be required, as a 
condition of participation, to execute non-disclosure agreements and other documents as 
GDC may reasonably require reflecting the same. 
(b) Procurement materials relevant to the proposal evaluation shall be timely shared by GDC 
with applicable evaluators, subject to the confidentiality requirements discussed in Section 
4.03(a) and Section 11.03 herein, through a platform determined by GDC. 
Section 4.04 Delivery Partner. 
(a) The Port Authority will be invited to, and shall participate as Port Authority deems 
appropriate, on the evaluation panel in connection with GDC’s procurement of the DP, 
which shall be conducted in accordance with the requirements for HTP procurements set 
forth in Section 6.02 of the PDA, which include providing additional services to GDC for 
the delivery of the HTP to augment the resources provided by the PDA Parties responsible 
for the delivery of each applicable work package for the HTP. 
(b) Prior to GDC’s award of the contract for the DP, Port Authority will consult with GDC on 
foreseeable use of the DP in connection with the Port Authority’s performance of the 
Services (without limiting the Port Authority’s ability to request DP resources in the future 
if the Services so require). 
(c) In the event the Port Authority desires to utilize DP resources in performing Services, it 
will first obtain approval from GDC on the scope and cost of such resources; provided, 
however, to the extent GDC does not approve such utilization, the Port Authority’s Services 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 10 - 
 
will be deemed revised to reflect the fact that such resources are not available. In the event 
GDC approves the use of DP resources to Port Authority, those DP resources shall be under 
the sole direction of Port Authority (and not the DP) for the term approved by GDC. 
Staffing plans for the DP’s support of the Port Authority’s performance of the Work shall 
be submitted for review and approval by Port Authority. 
(d) After the DP contract has been awarded and executed, Port Authority may develop 
additional draft task orders or modifications to existing task orders related to the Work, 
which draft task orders or modifications to existing task orders shall be subject to GDC’s 
review and approval. Once GDC approves the draft task order or task order modification, 
Port Authority will negotiate the task order or modification with the DP and recommend 
approval and execution by GDC. 
Section 4.05 Contract Awards. GDC shall award and enter into all contracts for the Work (the 
“Work Contracts”). Upon selection of the applicable Work Contractors, GDC shall execute all 
applicable contract documents (collectively, the “ Work Contract Documents ”) and the Port 
Authority will not procure or enter into any contracts for the Work without GDC’s prior written 
approval in accordance with GDC’s obligations under the PDA. 
ARTICLE V. 
THIRD PARTY AGREEMENTS; RIGHTS-OF-WAY 
Section 5.01 Third Party Agreements. The Port Authority will not enter into any third party 
agreements, including right-of-way and real property agreements or utility agreements, for the 
Work without GDC’s prior written approval in accordance with GDC’s obligations under the PDA. 
Section 5.02 Right-of-Way and Real Property Interest Acquisition. 
(a) Acquisition. GDC shall be responsible for ensuring that all necessary surface and 
subsurface property required for the investigation of conditions for construction, and 
operations, construction, and maintenance of the Hudson River Tunnel are acquired and 
available to the Port Authority in order to perform the Services. 
(b) Port Authority Access to Third Party Parcels. If, in connection with its performance of the 
Services, Port Authority desires to enter upon parcels owned or controlled by a third- party 
with whom GDC has an access agreement in place (each an “ Access Agreement”), Port 
Authority must comply with requirements of the Access Agreement and execute a 
“Temporary Permit to Enter Upon Property” or “Temporary Access Permit” (“ PTE”) to 
access the property. Port Authority has reviewed the forms of PTEs attached hereto as 
Exhibit B, and the access rights necessary for Port Authority’s performance of the 
Services, and has determined them to be acceptable. The Port Authority will not be required 
to incur costs and expenses in connection with obtaining such rights of way or other 
property interests described in this Section. 
Section 5.03 Utilities. Port Authority will, without incurring costs or expenses, assist GDC in 
coordinating with utility companies, regulators, and others having access to the properties where 
the Work is situated to coordinate the Work. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 11 - 
 
ARTICLE VI. 
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION 
Section 6.01 Design. 
(a) Design Standards and Specifications for the Work. 
(i) GDC will develop the Applicable Codes and all other specifications and standards it 
deems desirable in connection with the Work Contracts (“ Design Standards and 
Specifications for the Work”) in accordance with its obligations in the PDA and will 
provide the same to the Port Authority as they are developed.  If requested by GDC, 
the Port Authority will assist GDC to enable the Design Standards and Specifications 
for the Work to be developed in such a manner that the Work can be constructed in an 
efficient, safe, and cost-effective manner (with determinations as to Applicable Codes 
remaining the sole responsibility of GDC). 
(ii) GDC has the responsibility to ensure that certain submittals specified in the PDA are 
shared for review with the PDA Parties and others as specified in the PDA, and are 
appropriately adjudicated and the Port Authority is not responsible to ensuring that 
Design Standards and Specifications for the Work are developed under the PDA; 
however, the Port Authority will assist the GDC in performance of GDC’s obligations 
from time to time, as requested by GDC. 
(iii) Through CM Services, Port Authority will assist GDC’s efforts to ensure that the Work 
meets the minimum standards set forth in the Design Standards and Specifications for 
the Work and will also assist GDC’s efforts to ensure that there are no deviations from 
the Design Standards and Specifications for the Work, but all Port Authority 
determinations relating to Applicable Codes shall be made solely in accordance with 
Article X. Any deviation from the Design Standards and Specifications for the Work 
requires the written approval of GDC, as may be memorialized by the GDC CEO, the 
TSC, or the GDC Board of Commissioners, as specified in the PDA. The GDC CEO 
will be responsible for interpreting the requirements of the PDA, and Port Authority 
will defer to that interpretation, provided that determinations related to Applicable 
Codes which deviate from the Port Authority’s determination will be determined to 
be a deviation of the relevant Applicable Codes and GDC shall have full responsibility 
for making any such deviation decision. Port Authority agrees to assist the GDC in 
implementing the determinations of the GDC CEO, the TSC, or the GDC Board of 
Commissioners (but such assistance will not affect its Code Actions, which shall be 
performed independently from the CM Services). Notwithstanding the foregoing, to 
the extent the TSC’s approval of a Design Standards and Specifications for the Work 
document allows for flexibility in decision-making, (e.g., use of the term “up to” or no 
specified term), Port Authority is authorized (through CM Services) to make 
determinations for this class of deviations from the Design Standards and 
Specifications for the Work, which are immaterial and addressable in the field, 
provided that Port Authority issues prompt notice of the determination to the GDC 
CEO or his or her designee, subject to the Submittal review requirements 
contemplated in the PDA, to the extent a Submittal is required; provided that such 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 12 - 
 
determinations shall not constitute a decision on compliance with Applicable Codes, 
which will only be made in accordance with Article X.  
(iv) In performing the Services, Port Authority will endeavor to identify areas that support 
GDC’s goal of reducing time and cost to construct, ensuring a safe work environment, 
and adhering to the highest quality standards, and will share those findings and 
recommendations with GDC from time-to-time, as may be appropriate. In addition, 
Port Authority will assist GDC in evaluating alternative technical concepts or other 
value engineering concepts presented. 
Section 6.02 Coordination with Executive Project Scheduling. GDC shall control and maintain 
the Executive Project Schedule for the HTP. Port Authority, on behalf of and in consultation with 
GDC, will develop and maintain the project schedule for the Work (the “ Work Schedule ”), 
subject to GDC oversight. Both the form of the Work Schedule and the inputs to same are subject 
to approval by GDC. The Port Authority will provide GDC with at least monthly updates on the 
Work Schedule to enable GDC to oversee coordination with the Executive Project Schedule. 
Section 6.03. Labor Relations. GDC shall be responsible for engaging with labor constituencies 
and ensuring compliance with applicable labor laws, in accordance with Section 4.01(a) of the 
PDA. Port Authority agrees to support GDC with enforcing project labor requirements that are 
included in the Design Standards and Specifications for the Work or Work Contract Documents 
where and as applicable. 
Section 6.04. Insurance. GDC will be responsible for procuring project insurance based on 
GDC’s established criteria for the HTP insurance program (the “ HTP Insurance Program”). If 
GDC cannot insure Port Authority employees, Port Authority will pay for its own insurance. To 
the extent that Port Authority needs to procure separate insurance in connection with the Services, 
Port Authority’s expenditures will be considered an incremental cost that will be billed to GDC 
under this Agreement. The procurement of insurance pursuant to this Section 6.04 will be made in 
accordance with the provisions of Article IV. 
ARTICLE VII. 
COMPENSATION AND BUDGET 
Section 7.01 Market Case Estimate. Section 11.04(a) of the PDA requires that GDC establish a 
Market Case Estimate for each HTP Package. Because the Work includes multiple HTP Packages, 
GDC and Port Authority acknowledge that the Market Case Estimate for each HTP Package that 
composes the Work cannot be determined until all procurements related to the delivery of the 
applicable HTP Package for the Work is finalized and all final negotiated costs and contingencies 
are determined. The Port Authority will provide assistance to GDC in its development of each 
Market Case Estimate for the Work, including but not limited to, providing GDC with non-binding 
forecast information, based on the facts and assumptions made at the time of delivery, on the Port 
Authority’s staffing plan and budget for the Services as necessary to complete the overall Market 
Case Estimate. Barring unforeseen circumstances, Port Authority shall endeavor that the Services 
provided are within the Market Case Estimate; provided that if the Parties determine that the 
Services cannot be provided within the Market Case Estimate, the Parties may agree either that 
GDC request an amendment to the Market Case Estimate providing for necessary budget to 
accommodate the Services or agree that the Services will be deemed reduced concomitantly. GDC 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 13 - 
 
staff will present the Market Case Estimates, and any subsequent amendments thereto, to the GDC 
Board for approval. Upon GDC Board approval, Port Authority will agree to use its reasonable 
efforts to provide construction management services to GDC and enable GDC to oversee the Work 
in accordance with the Market Case Estimates. 
Section 7.02 Port Authority Staffing Plan and Budget. 
(a) Port Authority will develop a staffing plan and organizational chart to provide the Services 
and support the Work. With regard to project lead, deputy lead, and other senior leadership 
positions for the Work (the “ Senior Roles”), Port Authority will recommend candidates 
for the Senior Roles who will be subject to GDC’s approval, which will not be unreasonably 
withheld. Any replacement personnel for Senior Roles will also be recommended by Port 
Authority and subject to approval by GDC, which approval will not be unreasonably 
withheld. 
(b) Ninety (90) days prior to the start of each federal fiscal year, Port Authority will transmit 
to GDC for approval a staffing plan and budget identifying: (i) the individuals that will 
provide support under this Agreement; (ii) each individual’s title and hourly rate; (iii) 
anticipated out-of-pocket costs to be incurred by Port Authority as required for performance 
under this Agreement; and (iv) anticipated hours and total costs for the year (the “ Port 
Authority Staffing Plan and Budget”). The Port Authority Staffing Plan and Budget will 
be subject to GDC review and approval by the GDC CEO or his or her designee, and, upon 
such approval, all costs under the Port Authority Staffing Plan and Budget will be not to 
exceed costs unless otherwise approved by the GDC CEO or his or her designee; provided, 
however, that if approval is not granted, the Services will be deemed reduced 
concomitantly and the Port Authority will not be obligated to provide Services without 
being fully compensated therefor. 
(c) Throughout each federal fiscal year, Port Authority will promptly disclose to GDC any 
anticipated deviations from the Port Authority Staffing Plan and Budget as soon as they are 
reasonably anticipated or identified including, but not limited to, salary adjustments that 
result in modified hourly rate, or changes in personnel which, however, shall be reported 
to GDC at least once annually to coincide with agency-wide salary planning practices. 
(d) For the first federal fiscal year commencing October 1, 2023, and until the detailed scope 
of services contemplated in Section 2.03 is developed (to the extent required), Port 
Authority will provide a quarterly Port Authority Staffing Plan and Budget. 
Section 7.03 Compensation. 
(a) GDC will compensate Port Authority for the Services, which compensation will include: 
(i) Direct costs incurred by Port Authority as required for performance under this 
Agreement, inclusive of but not limited to office space required for performance of 
the Work (including Port Authority’s adjunct office space for Major Capital Projects), 
provided that any costs for expenses not expressly included in the Port Authority 
Staffing Plan and Budget must be pre-approved in writing by GDC in order for Port 
Authority to receive reimbursement for such costs. For the avoidance of doubt, the 
Port Authority must obtain GDC’s express written approval to enter into any purchase 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 14 - 
 
or lease agreement for office space related to the Services in accordance with Section 
4.05 hereof; 
(ii) The reasonable time-based costs under the Port Authority Staffing Plan and Budget, 
as it is from time to time amended (subject to supporting documentation); and 
(iii) An allocation for Port Authority’s overhead, including general and administrative 
costs, engineering general costs and allocated employer-provided fringe benefits, in 
conformity with the federally “approved indirect cost rates.” 
(b) Port Authority will invoice GDC for the Services on a quarterly basis in a format approved 
by GDC, and GDC shall pay such invoices within ninety (90) days. 
(c) Port Authority will provide GDC with supporting records and data necessary for GDC to 
secure reimbursement from federal and other funding sources of any payments made to 
Port Authority for providing the Services. 
Section 7.04 Budgeting. 
(a) GDC shall develop and maintain the Project Budget for the HTP in accordance with Section 
9.1 of the PDA. 
(b) As part of the Services, Port Authority shall assist GDC in GDC’s efforts to develop and 
maintain  GDC’s budget for the Work (the “ Work Budget”) in accordance with and in 
conformity with the applicable Market Case Estimates once approved by GDC. Both the 
form of the budget and the inputs are subject to approval by GDC. Port Authority will 
provide GDC with at least monthly updates on the Work Budget to enable GDC to work 
to maintain the Project Budget. 
(c) Port Authority shall maintain the Work Budget within the FTA’s Standard Cost Categories 
(“SCC”). Once established, any modifications to SCC line items shall be subject to GDC’s 
prior written approval. Port Authority will be authorized, within the parameters of the 
Market Case Estimates, to use supplemental SCC line items, and to reallocate funds (other 
than contingency funds) between line items. 
(d) Port Authority will notify GDC regarding any anticipated material deviations from the 
Work Budget as soon as they are reasonably anticipated or identified. 
Section 7.05 Change orders.  
(a) Acting as a service provider to GDC, Port Authority will act as GDC’s representative in 
interfacing with all Work Contractors engaged on the Work. In such role, Port Authority 
will assist in evaluating, negotiating, and recommending for GDC’s review and decision 
any change orders, post-award contract changes, post-award field items, equitable 
adjustments, and claims (collectively “Change Orders”) for the Work. All Change Orders 
will require GDC approval as GDC will be the contracting party on all Work Contracts. 
(b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, GDC will execute a Change Order recommended by Port 
Authority without further review after Port Authority has evaluated, negotiated, and 
recommended the Change Order where the following conditions are met: (i) the proposed 
Change Order does not exceed $500,000 and, along with any other approved Change 
Orders for the specific construction package, would not create a Cost Impact greater than 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 15 - 
 
one (1) percent of the contract value as expressed in the Market Case Estimate in the 
aggregate for that calendar year; (ii) the Change Order would not alter the character of the 
Work (for purposes of illustration, changes to the character of the Work would include but 
not be limited to (A) modifications to the accepted Design Standards and Specifications 
for the Work, (B) deviations that require further environmental evaluation or reevaluation 
of the HTP, and (C) changes that impact existing or planned rights of way or operations); 
(iii) the Change Order would not have a schedule impact on the Work of sixty (60) days 
or more; and (iv) the Change Order would not require an amendment to the Market Case 
Estimate. Any proposed change order that does not meet the foregoing criteria will be 
subject to review and approval by GDC. 
Section 7.06 Cost and Schedule Impacts . Upon occurrence of any event or circumstance that 
results in a Cost Impact, Port Authority shall immediately notify GDC in writing of the Cost 
Impact, and such notice shall include advice on steps that could be taken to overcome or mitigate 
the increased cost. After providing the initial notification to GDC, Port Authority shall provide 
written updates on the Cost Impact to GDC every thirty (30) days. As soon as Port Authority 
actually becomes aware of the cost of the Cost Impact it will provide GDC with a written summary 
of the known or estimated Cost Impact, which shall include a full accounting of the Cost Impact, 
including any schedule impacts and the efforts taken to overcome or mitigate the cost and schedule 
impacts. 
ARTICLE VIII. 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE; PERMITTING 
Section 8.01 NEPA. 
(a) GDC, in its capacity as HTP project sponsor and NEPA sponsor, shall be responsible for 
all NEPA compliance activities related to the Work in accordance with Section 8.01 of the 
PDA, which includes: ensuring conformance of the HTP, including all required 
mitigations, with NEPA Approvals, and shall seek technical or other amendments to the 
NEPA Approvals, in each case as required to support delivery of the HTP. For the purposes 
of this Agreement, “ NEPA Approvals ” shall mean the final approval(s) issued under 
NEPA pertaining to the HTP, including the Final Environmental Impact Statement and 
Record of Decision (the “ROD”) from FRA and FTA, and all approved supplements and 
reevaluations pertaining to the HTP, all NEPA documents, including technical memoranda 
required to be submitted to FRA and FTA under NEPA, and compliance with the National 
Historic Preservation Act Section 106 Programmatic Agreement and all related 
environmental compliance documents. Any proposed material deviations from the NEPA 
Approvals must be reviewed and approved by GDC. 
(b) GDC shall require the applicable Work Contractors, and any other contractors performing 
work on its behalf, to comply with all NEPA requirements and mitigations set forth in the 
Work Contract Documents, including all applicable federal, state, and local laws, 
regulations, and requirements, including NEPA, the Coastal Zone Management Act, 49 
U.S.C. § 303, and the National Historic Preservation Act, as may be further described in 
the ROD. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 16 - 
 
(c) Port Authority will support GDC with monitoring NEPA compliance for the Work, 
including compliance by Work Contractors. Port Authority will comply with NEPA 
requirements and enforce such requirements with Contractors. 
(d) Port Authority will immediately inform GDC of any changes or proposed changes 
regarding NEPA compliance for GDC’s review and approval. 
Section 8.02 Permits. 
(a) GDC has developed a comprehensive list of permits, licenses, and approvals required for 
the delivery of the Work (the “ Work Permits ”), as well as the party responsible for 
obtaining, paying for (including all applicable filing fees), and maintaining the Work 
Permits. Port Authority will assist GDC by tracking the progress of all Work Permit 
applications through a permit tracking and management tool. GDC intends to develop a 
tool for tracking permits across the HTP, and will make such tool available to Port 
Authority. The status of pending Work Permit applications shall be reviewed with the 
SPCC by GDC, assisted by the Port Authority, if requested. 
(b) All Work Contract Documents between GDC and its construction contractors shall 
require, to the extent applicable to such Work Contractor's scope of work, that such Work 
Contractor comply with all applicable Work Permits. The Port Authority shall monitor 
and track such compliance on behalf of GDC pursuant to the terms of the applicable Work 
Contract Documents to assist GDC in taking action to assure that its contractors remain in 
compliance. 
(c) Port Authority agrees to engage in advance consultation with GDC in connection with any 
Work Permits required for the Work that have requirements that would be reasonably 
anticipated to impact future HTP Packages, and otherwise regularly update GDC through 
the SPCC in connection with all permits being sought. For the avoidance of doubt, Port 
Authority shall notify GDC of any permit application of which the Port Authority becomes 
aware that it believes will materially impact GDC’s ability to proceed with any other HTP 
Package but will not be responsible for obtaining those permits. 
(d) Action by the Port Authority under this Section 8.02 shall not constitute Code Action. 
ARTICLE IX. 
PROJECT REPORTING AND CONTROLS 
Section 9.01 Reporting. 
(a) GDC is responsible for the preparation of the reports necessary to satisfy all federal 
funding and financing requirements applicable to the HTP, including the Work. Port 
Authority agrees to provide all information regarding the Work in the format prescribed by 
GDC that is required for any such reports, including any inputs related to the Work that 
are required for GDC to develop, compile, and submit such reports. 
(b) Port Authority shall regularly provide information and updates to GDC on the progress of 
the Work in accordance with terms of this Agreement and shall promptly respond to all 
GDC requests for such information in the format prescribed by GDC. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 17 - 
 
Section 9.02 Audit and Record Retention. Port Authority shall maintain books and records 
related to the Services in accordance with the GDC Record Retention Policy, and shall permit the 
authorized representatives of GDC, the USDOT, FRA, FTA, the inspector generals of GDC and 
Amtrak, the Comptroller General of the United States or its designee, and all relevant federal and 
state governmental agencies to inspect and audit Port Authority’s data, books, records, and 
documents relating to its obligations under this Agreement. Port Authority shall preserve and retain 
all books and records related to the Services for a period of time equal to the longer of (a) the longest 
period of time required for retention of the books and records under applicable law, or (b) the 
resolution of any litigation or disputes related to the Work of which the Port Authority has been 
notified in accordance with Section 18.02. 
Section 9.03 Risk Register Management . Pursuant to Section 10.01(d) of the PDA, GDC will 
manage the risk register for the HTP, including the Work. Port Authority will support GDC by 
attending risk register management meetings and reviewing the risk register in order to identify 
and assess risks associated with the Work. 
Section 9.04 Federally Required Project Plans. GDC shall draft and submit all plans required to 
be submitted to FTA, FRA, or any other applicable federal agency providing funding or financing 
for the HTP. Port Authority shall regularly provide information and updates to GDC on the 
progress of the Work in accordance with terms of this Agreement to facilitate GDC’s drafting and 
submission of such plans. 
Section 9.05 Project Management Plan. GDC shall develop the project management plan 
(“PMP”) in consultation with the other PDA Parties as coordinated through the SPCC. The PMP 
shall set forth reporting, scheduling, and production obligations applicable to the PDA Parties, 
including with respect to HTP budgeting as described, and the maintenance of records and 
development of reports. The Services to be provided by Port Authority hereunder shall be made 
part of the PMP by GDC. The PMP will not expand the scope of the CM Services authorized in 
this agreement without the explicit consent of the Port Authority. In addition, in the event of any 
conflict between this Agreement and the PMP, this Agreement shall govern. 
Section 9.06 Force Account. In accordance with Section 5.02(b) of the PDA, for each federal 
fiscal year, GDC shall develop an annual force account resources plan prior to the start of federal 
fiscal year in coordination with the parties that are providing force account or requesting force 
account work (the “ Force Account Resources Plan ”) in accordance with the applicable Work 
Contracts. Port Authority shall cooperate with GDC in the development of the Force Account 
Resources Plan and the utilization of NJ TRANSIT and Amtrak force account resources, as 
applicable.  
Section 9.07 Development of a Rail Activation Plan/Systems Integration Plan. Amtrak shall 
develop, in coordination with GDC and any users and operators of the HTP (e.g., NJ TRANSIT), 
a meaningful draft of the rail activation and systems integration plan, including without limitation 
a training plan for personnel, (the “ Rail Activation Plan”) and any other plans necessary to 
commence rail service, including a dynamic testing plan that shall account for the fleets of users 
and operators of the HTP (e.g., NJ TRANSIT). GDC will require that the Rail Activation Plan 
inform the development of each HTP Package as needed. GDC anticipates that the Rail Activation 
Plan shall be finalized no later than twelve (12) months prior to the operation of the new Hudson 
River Tunnel. At the direction of GDC, Port Authority shall assist GDC in preparation of the Rail 
Activation Plan as it relates to the Work. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 18 - 
 
Section 9.08 Document Access and Control. 
(a) GDC shall have responsibility for document access and control, pursuant to Section 
10.01(b) of the PDA. GDC is in the process of developing a protocol for the management 
and control of HTP documentation in order to provide a consistent approach for all HTP 
Packages. 
(b) Without limiting the foregoing, pursuant to the protocol that will be established by GDC, 
GDC will specify to Port Authority the methodology for the management and control of 
documentation associated with the Work. The Port Authority will comply with GDC’s 
document control methodology and will timely provide GDC with any document required 
to be provided thereunder; provided that to the extent it deviates from the Port Authority’s 
own protocols for document management, the Port Authority Staffing Plan and Budget 
shall be adjusted accordingly. 
ARTICLE X. 
CODE COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT 
Section 10.01 Code Compliance. As to Code Actions, the Port Authority will perform audit and 
enforcement duties under the Applicable Codes for the Work in the manner prescribed for code 
enforcement officials and construction officials set forth under the uniform building codes of the 
New York (19 NYCRR Chapter XXXII) and New Jersey (N.J.A.C. 5:23) (and if in conflict, as 
directed by GDC in accordance with one such code). To the extent the Work (or portion thereof) 
is completed in accordance with Applicable Codes and Compliant Plans to the satisfaction of the 
Port Authority, it shall issue a Certificate of Compliance for the Work (or relevant portion thereof). 
The Port Authority’s Code Actions shall be limited to: 
(a) The PANYNJ Code Actions Services will not be performed for the Hudson River Ground 
Stabilization project. 
(b) Review of (i) plans and design documentation prepared by GDC or its contractors when 
GDC notifies Port Authority and requests such a review as determined by GDC (e.g., at the 
60 percent and 100 percent design levels), and (ii) certain engineering design and 
construction submittal packages prepared by GDC or its contractors for compliance with 
Applicable Codes within no less than ten days, to maintain project schedule. Within the 
specified period, Port Authority’s Engineering Department shall respond to GDC that the 
submitted plans, design documentation, engineering design, and construction submittal 
packages comply with Applicable Codes, specifying additional information required to 
make the determination, or determining that the plans, design documentation, engineering 
design, and construction submittal packages do not comply with Applicable Codes and 
specifying the reasons therefor.   
(c) Audit of the elements of the Work for compliance with Applicable Codes and conformity 
to Compliant Plans. 
(d) When GDC or the HTP Contractor provides the Engineer of Record’s certification as to 
compliance with Applicable Codes and conformity with Compliant Plans for the Work (or 
a portion thereof), and upon the Port Authority’s satisfaction that the Work complies with 
the Applicable Codes and conforms to the Compliant Plans, issue, as applicable, a 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 19 - 
 
Certificate of Substantial Compliance (so long as the structure may be safely utilized) and 
of Final Compliance (when the Applicable Codes are fully complied with in accordance 
with their terms). 
(e) All disputes related to Applicable Codes will be referred to GDC for determination in 
accordance with the PDA requirements. If adjudication of a dispute results in the granting 
of a deviation from the Applicable Code, the deviation from the Applicable Code shall be 
documented and approved by GDC and thereafter, in its Code Actions, the Port Authority 
will give effect to such deviation from the Applicable Code. 
ARTICLE XI. 
PUBLIC DISCLOSURE AND CONFIDENTIALITY 
Section 11.01 Public Disclosure Laws. GDC and Port Authority are subject to specific public 
records laws and policies. Each Party shall give the other Party reasonable notice if it receives a 
public disclosure request for GDC documents or documents related to the Services, the Work, or 
this Agreement as promptly as possible to permit the other Party to object to production of any 
material before a court of competent jurisdiction in advance of its production. GDC and Port 
Authority acknowledge that infrastructure security, proprietary commercial data, certain 
procurement documentation, and other related project documents may necessitate confidentiality 
agreements between the Parties and their personnel in order to access such materials. 
Section 11.02 Data Protection. GDC and Port Authority are subject to specific data protection 
laws and policies. GDC and Port Authority shall cooperate to ensure that GDC and Port Authority 
meet their obligations under such applicable data protection laws and policies. 
Section 11.03 Confidential Information. Each Party will protect all confidential, proprietary, or 
sensitive information related to the Work (the “GDC Confidential Information”) from disclosure 
unless authorized to disclose in writing by the other Party, and will not use such information for 
any purpose other than the Work. Each Party shall promptly return to the other Party any 
Confidential Information upon the other Party’s request. Nothing herein shall require a Party to 
act in contravention of applicable laws or policies. 
ARTICLE XII. 
TRANSFER 
Section 12.01 Testing Generally. GDC and Port Authority agree that, in accordance with Section 
14.02(c) of the PDA, GDC and Port Authority shall coordinate, and the PDA Parties shall be 
permitted to witness any testing of the Work with the applicable Work Contractor(s), the results 
of which shall be subject to the approval of Amtrak and, to the extent applicable, NJ TRANSIT. 
Section 12.02 Final Testing . GDC and Port Authority agree that, in accordance with Section 
14.02(d) of the PDA, Amtrak shall perform any final testing of the Work in coordination with 
GDC, NJ TRANSIT, and any known users and operators of the HTP according to (i) the schedule 
specified by GDC and NJ TRANSIT, and (ii) the Force Account Resources Plan for the applicable 
year. 
Section 12.03 Required Record Deliverables Provided to Amtrak. GDC and Port Authority agree 
that, in accordance with Section 14.02(j) of the PDA, GDC and Port Authority shall enforce the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 20 - 
 
requirements set forth in the applicable Work Contract Documents with respect to the Work 
Contractor’s satisfaction of the provision of record deliverables, including final as-built plans, to 
Amtrak in the form necessary to support Amtrak’s operations in accordance with the Work 
Contract Documents, subject to review by Amtrak. 
Section 12.04 Contract Closeout. The Port Authority will assist GDC in closing out all HTP 
Contracts related to the Work (which Services will not be Code Actions). 
ARTICLE XIII. 
PROTECTION AGAINST UNPLANNED COSTS AND EXPENSES 
Section 13.01 Duty of the Port Authority It is the understanding of the Parties that the Port 
Authority is acting hereunder at GDC’s direction and for its benefit during the Term of this 
Agreement and is not obligated to perform hereunder on behalf of any other party. The Port 
Authority will use reasonable efforts in good faith to complete the tasks set forth herein as and 
when requested by GDC. To the extent that the Port Authority completes its obligations hereunder 
in a manner that does not involve intentional wrongdoing (“Standard of Care”), then GDC agrees 
that any costs, expenses, losses, damages, liabilities, deficiencies, claims, actions, judgments, 
settlements, interest, awards, penalties, fines, costs, or expenses of whatever kind, including 
reasonable attorneys' fees (collectively “ Unplanned Costs”) claimed, incurred or imposed upon 
the Port Authority or any of its representatives (including its commissioners, employees, agents, 
successors and permitted assigns) shall be paid by GDC on behalf of, or promptly reimbursed to, 
the Port Authority, including any Unplanned Costs arising from (i) failure by GDC to obtain the 
right to use any intellectual property of any other party in connection with the Work or (ii) 
environmental matters arising out of the Work. Any amounts paid to the Port Authority under this 
Section 13.01 shall be in addition to compensation and other payments due pursuant to the terms 
of this Agreement, including Article VII. If the GDC asserts that the Port Authority breached the 
Standard of Care, no acts or omissions of the Port Authority shall be deemed to have breached the 
Standard of Care until a final decision to that effect by an Arbitration Panel as set forth in Section 
14.01 or 14.03, as applicable. 
Section 13.02 Indemnification of GDC. To the extent the Port Authority causes Unplanned Costs 
to be incurred by GDC as a result of Port Authority’s acts or omissions which breach the Standard 
of Care (determined as set forth in Section 13.01), including claims of other parties asserted against 
GDC, the Port Authority shall indemnify, hold harmless, and defend GDC and its commissioners, 
employees, agents, successors, and permitted assigns, the States of New York and New Jersey, 
and Amtrak (as other parties asserting claims through GDC) (collectively, “ GDC Indemnified 
Parties”), against any and all Unplanned Costs to the extent incurred by a GDC Indemnified Party.  
ARTICLE XIV. 
DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
Section 14.01 Dispute Resolution Procedures . Port Authority and GDC hereby agree that the 
dispute resolution procedures set forth in Article XV of the PDA shall govern disputes which 
directly affect field construction activities (“ Construction Disputes”). (For avoidance of doubt, 
the Port Authority CM Services and Advisory Services are primarily consultative in nature and 
may be overridden by GDC and thus will not create “disputes” related to this article.) 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 21 - 
 
Section 14.02 Code Actions. With respect to Code Actions, disputes will be referred to GDC for 
possible final determination in accordance with Section 10.01(e). 
Section 14.03 Business Disputes. All disputes regarding the business relationship between the 
Port Authority and GDC (where the Port Authority and GDC are adverse to each other) hereunder 
(each, a “Business Dispute”) shall be resolved as follows: 
(a) Notice of Dispute. If a Business Dispute arises between the Parties, a Party shall promptly, 
and in any event, no later than 90 days from the date upon which such Party knew of the 
Business Dispute, provide written notice of the Business Dispute to the other Party.  A 
Party’s failure to submit such notice of a Business Dispute within 90 days from the date 
upon which such Party knew of the Business Dispute shall be deemed a waiver of such 
Party of any claims related to such Business Dispute. 
(b) Discussion. Upon providing notice of a Business Dispute under Section 14.03(a), the 
Business Dispute shall be referred for discussion to the Port Authority Executive Director 
and the GDC CEO. If the Business Dispute cannot be resolved by the Port Authority 
Executive Director and the GDC CEO within ninety (90) days of notice , such Business 
Dispute shall be determined to be at an impasse and either Party may exercise their rights 
regarding a Business Dispute as set forth in subsection (b). 
(c) If the Business Dispute remains unresolved, and if either Party desires further resolution 
of the Business Dispute, it shall so notify the other Party and thereafter the Parties will 
engage in expedited binding arbitration for final resolution of such Business Dispute 
(“Arbitration”). The Arbitration will be conducted under a substantial evidence standard 
by three independent arbitrators (the “Arbitration Panel”) to be administered by an entity 
that is not controlled by GDC or the Port Authority after approval by the Parties (and the 
Parties agree to consent to either JAMS or the American Arbitration Association (the 
“AAA”) as such non-controlled entity). In the event that no entity is selected by the Parties, 
binding final arbitration shall be administered by the AAA pursuant to its Construction 
Industry Arbitration Rules. The Parties agree to share equally all arbitrator fees and costs 
and arbitration expenses. The Port Authority shall appoint an arbitrator. GDC shall 
appoint as its arbitrator for the resolution of Business Disputes pursuant to this Section 
14.03 the “Chair of the Arbitration Tribunal” who was selected by the arbitrators of 
disputes under the PDA and appointed pursuant to Section 15.03 of the PDA (and the Port 
Authority shall have no obligation to confirm the status of GDC’s arbitrator). The Party-
appointed arbitrators shall select a third independent arbitrator. Such seated arbitrators 
shall choose a Chair of the Arbitration Panel from among them by majority vote. After the 
Chair is appointed, the Arbitration Panel shall develop arbitration procedures in 
consultation with the Parties and in all events, the Arbitration Panel shall be required to 
render a decision on whether the Standard of Care has been met before considering other 
aspects of the Business Dispute. 
(d) Pending final resolution of a Business Dispute, the Parties shall proceed diligently with the 
performance of their respective undisputed obligations hereunder in order to avoid delays 
in the Work. 
(e) The Parties shall, and shall require their respective representatives and the arbitrators, to 
maintain the confidential nature of the arbitration proceeding and the award, including the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 22 - 
 
hearing, except as may be required by law (including open records access rules) or as may 
be necessary to prepare for or conduct the arbitration hearing on the merits, or as may be 
necessary in connection with a court application for a preliminary remedy, a judicial 
challenge to an award or its enforcement. 
ARTICLE XV. 
DEFAULTS AND REMEDIES 
Section 15.01 Events of Default. A Party shall be in default of this Agreement (a “Default”), if a 
Party fails to timely observe or perform, or cause to be observed or performed, or breaches or 
causes to be breached, any material obligation, term, or condition required to be observed or 
performed by such Party under this Agreement. 
Section 15.02 Process and Remedies . The process for resolving a Default, and determining the 
remedies for such Default, shall be as set forth in Article XIV. 
ARTICLE XVI. 
TERM AND TERMINATION 
Section 16.01 Term. Unless terminated early in accordance with Section 16.02 hereof, and subject 
to the survival of certain provisions pursuant to Section 18.13 hereof, this Agreement shall expire 
upon rendering of a final certificate of completion for the Work and closeout of any contracts 
associated with the Work. 
Section 16.02 Termination. 
(a) Cause. This Agreement may be terminated before the expiration date of the Term on 
written notice by either Party if the other Party materially breaches any provision of this 
Agreement and the breach is not cured by the breaching Party within thirty (30) days after 
the breaching Party's receipt of written notice of such breach or such longer period as may 
be agreed to complete this cure if such breach is susceptible to cure and the breaching Party 
is proceeding diligently to do so (the “Cure Period”). The non-breaching Party may extend 
the Cure Period in its sole discretion. 
(b) Payment Notwithstanding Termination. Notwithstanding termination by GDC hereunder, 
GDC shall make payment to the Port Authority for all costs and expenses incurred through 
the date of termination.  
ARTICLE XVII. 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES 
Section 17.01 Representations and Warranties of both Parties. 
(a) Each Party hereby represents and warrants to the other Party that, as of the date hereof: 
(i) it has full power and authority to enter into, deliver, and perform this Agreement 
upon the terms and conditions as set forth herein; 
(ii) this Agreement has been duly authorized by such Party and does not require any 
additional action to be effective; and 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 23 - 
 
(iii) each person signing on such Party's behalf is authorized to do so. 
(b) Each Party acknowledges and agrees that it enters into this Agreement in reliance on the 
representations and warranties set forth in this Article XVI. 
Section 17.02 Port Authority to Comply. Unless otherwise agreed to by the Parties, Port Authority 
agrees to abide by applicable GDC policies and procedures in carrying out its obligations under 
this Agreement.  
ARTICLE XVIII. 
MISCELLANEOUS 
Section 18.01 Compliance with Laws. 
(a) In performing its obligations under this Agreement, each Party shall, and shall require 
any contractors performing work on its behalf to, comply with all federal, state and local 
laws, regulations and requirements applicable to it when performing such obligation, and 
the Parties shall cooperate in all respects in a manner designed to ensure that each Party 
meets its respective obligations under this Section 18.01(a). 
(b) Each Party shall be responsible for administration and management activities of the 
federal grant and funding agreements and as otherwise required by federal law 
(including, for the avoidance of doubt, all applicable federal standards and requirements). 
Each Party shall cooperate fully and promptly with each other to ensure that each Party is 
able to comply with all of its respective administration and management responsibilities 
in respect of such federal grant and funding agreements and under federal law, including 
providing each other with all reports and data necessary to comply with such 
responsibilities and incorporating corresponding compliance obligations in agreements 
it may have with contractors, consultants, and assignees. 
Section 18.02 Notices. Except as otherwise required by applicable law, including with respect to 
service of process, any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent, waiver, or other 
document provided or permitted by this Agreement to be made, given, furnished to, or filed with 
one Party by the other Party shall be in writing and shall be delivered email (with confirmation of 
transmission), by hand, by certified mail, return receipt requested, or by overnight delivery service, 
to such Party in an envelope addressed as follows: 
(a) If to GDC: 
Gateway Development Commission  
2 Penn Plaza East, 11th Floor  
Newark, New Jersey 07105 
Attn: Chief Executive Officer  
with a copy to: 
Gateway Development Commission  
2 Penn Plaza East, 11th Floor  
Newark, New Jersey 07105 
Attn: General Counsel 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 24 - 
 
(b) If to Port Authority: 
Port Authority of NY & NJ  
4 World Trade Center 
150 Greenwich Street, 23rd Floor  
New York, New York 10007  
Attn: Executive Director 
with a copy to: 
Port Authority of NY & NJ  
4 World Trade Center 
150 Greenwich Street, 23rd Floor  
New York, New York 10007  
Attn: General Counsel 
Section 18.03 Severability. If any term or provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal, or 
unenforceable, such invalidity, illegality, or unenforceability shall not affect any other term or 
provision of this Agreement or invalidate or render unenforceable such other term or provision. 
Upon a determination that any term or provision is invalid, illegal, or unenforceable, the Parties 
hereto shall negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement to effect the original intent of the 
Parties as closely as possible in order that the transactions contemplated hereby be consummated 
as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible. 
Section 18.04 Entire Agreement. This Agreement, as well as its attachments and exhibits, and any 
valid amendments constitute the entire agreement among the Parties regarding its subject matter, 
and no other oral or written understandings, representations, inducements, consideration, 
promises, or interpretations are part of this Agreement. 
Section 18.05 Benefits of Agreement; Assignments. 
(a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Parties hereto and 
their respective successors and permitted assigns. 
(b) No Party shall assign any of its rights or delegate any of its obligations hereunder without 
the prior written consent of the other Party. 
Section 18.06 Cumulative Remedies; No Waiver. 
(a) The remedies of the Parties provided herein are cumulative and not exclusive of any 
remedies provided for by law. 
(b) No Party has agreed to waive any defense, right, immunity, or other protection under 
applicable law, including any statutory provision, by entering into this Agreement, except 
to the extent provided for in statutes enacted by the States of New York and New Jersey. 
Section 18.07 Amendments; Waivers. 
(a) No modifications, amendments or waivers of, or consents to departures from, this 
Agreement will be valid unless in a writing signed by all Parties to this Agreement. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 25 - 
 
(b) Any waiver or consent granted by a Party shall only apply to the instance and for the 
specific purpose for which it has been given. No waiver by any Party of any requirement 
or condition, in whole or part, shall operate as a waiver of any other requirement or 
condition, and no consent shall prevent a Party from subsequently exercising its rights 
pursuant to this Agreement without being bound by the manner in which it previously 
exercised (or refrained from exercising) such rights. Furthermore, failure to enforce a 
provision shall not be construed to constitute waiver of the enforceability or applicability 
of the provision or any other provision of this Agreement. 
Section 18.08 No Partnership. 
(a) The Parties shall each independently comply with and perform their respective 
obligations under this Agreement, and nothing contained in this Agreement (including 
the use of the term “SEP”) shall be deemed to create any association, agency, partnership, 
joint venture, other form of joint enterprise or fiduciary relationship among the Parties or 
to provide any Party with the right, power, or authority, whether express or implied, to act 
or create any obligation on behalf of any other Party. 
(b) In furtherance of the foregoing, it is understood and agreed that no Party has the power to 
contract on behalf of, or to authorize the expenditure of any monies by, the other Party. 
Section 18.09 No Third-Party Beneficiaries. This Agreement does not create any rights in, or 
inure to the benefit of, any third-party except to the extent set forth herein. 
Section 18.10 Counterparts and Electronic Signatures. This Agreement may be executed in any 
number of counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original agreement, and all of which 
taken together shall be deemed one and the same agreement. The counterparts of this Agreement 
may be executed and delivered by PDF, facsimile, or other electronic signature by email 
transmission by the Parties. The receiving Party may rely on the receipt of such document so 
executed and delivered electronically or by facsimile as if the original has been received. No Party 
shall contest the admissibility or enforceability of the electronically signed copy of the Agreement 
in any proceeding arising out of the terms and conditions of this Agreement. 
Section 18.11 Personal Liability. No director, commissioner, officer, member, agent, or employee 
of any Party shall be charged personally by any Party with any liability or held liable to it under 
this Agreement for acts or omissions within the scope of his, her or their duties. 
Section 18.12 Time is of the Essence. Each Party recognizes that time is of the essence with respect 
to the performance of each Party's obligations under this Agreement. Each Party shall use its 
reasonable best efforts to perform such Party's obligations set forth in this Agreement in 
accordance with the Executive Project Schedule. 
Section 18.13 Survival. The following provisions of this Agreement shall survive the expiration 
or earlier termination of this Agreement: 
(a) Article I (Definitions and Rules of Interpretation) and Exhibit A (Definitions), 
(b) Section 9.02 (Audit), 
(c) Article XI (Public Disclosure and Confidentiality), 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 26 - 
 
(d) Article XIII (Indemnification), 
(e) Article XIV (Dispute Resolution), 
(f) Article XV (Defaults and Remedies), 
(g) Article XVII (Representations and Warranties), and 
(h) Article XVIII (Miscellaneous). 
 
[Signature Pages Follow.] 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
- 27 - 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed 
as of the Effective Date. 
 
 
THE PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK 
AND NEW JERSEY 
 
 
By: ______________________________ 
 Richard Cotton 
Executive Director 
 
 
GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION 
 
 
By:     
 Kris Kolluri 
Chief Executive Officer

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
A-1 
 
EXHIBIT A 
DEFINITIONS 
“AAA” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(c). 
“Access Agreement” shall have the mean set forth in Section 5.02(b). 
“Advisory Services” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital K of this Agreement. 
“Amtrak” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital B of this Agreement.  
“Applicable Codes” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(e).  
“Arbitration” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(c). 
“Arbitration Panel” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14.03(c). 
“Agreement” shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. 
“AREMA” shall mean the American Railway Engineering and Maintenance-of-Way Association. 
“Business Dispute” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14.03. 
“Change Orders” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.05. 
“CM Services” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital K of this Agreement. 
“Code Actions” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital K of this Agreement. 
“Compliant Plans” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(l). 
“Construction Disputes” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14.01. 
“Cost Impact” shall mean the amount by which the delivery of an HTP Package exceeds the cost 
set forth in the applicable Market Case Estimate (as that Market Case Estimate may, from time to 
time, be amended as described in this Agreement). 
“Cure Period” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 16.02(a).  
“Default” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 15.01.  
“DP” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.04. 
“Design Standards and Specifications” means the design standards and specifications approved 
for the HTP as contemplated in the PDA, which design standards and specifications shall be (i) 
developed in conformance with Amtrak’s engineering standards for design and construction, (ii) 
leverage best available information including industry standards such as AREMA standards and 
FRA standards, (iii) to the extent practicable, meet or exceed local building and fire codes, and 
(iv) have been approved by the TSC. No other standards shall be considered. 
“Design Standards and Specifications for the Work” means the Design Standards and 
Specifications approved by the TSC for the Work, referenced in Section 6.01(a)(i). 
“Effective Date” shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
A-2 
 
“Executive Project Schedule” shall mean the schedule setting forth the anticipated timetable for 
the implementation of the HTP, including those key dates described in Section 5.01(b) of the PDA. 
“Force Account Resources Plan” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.06.  
“FRA” shall mean the Federal Railroad Administration. 
“FTA” shall mean the Federal Transit Administration. 
“GDC” shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement.  
“GDC Act” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital A to this Agreement. 
“GDC Board” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital K to this Agreement. 
“GDC CEO” shall mean the Chief Executive Officer of Gateway Development Commission.  
“GDC Confidential Information” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 11.03. 
“GDC Indemnified Parties” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.02. 
“HTP” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital F to this Agreement. 
“HTP Contractor” shall have the meaning set forth in the PDA. 
“HTP Designer” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(q). 
“HTP Insurance Program” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 6.04. 
“HTP Packages” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital H to this Agreement. 
“Hudson River Tunnel” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital I to this Agreement.  
“Market Case Estimate” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.01. 
“NEC” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital A to this Agreement. 
“NEPA” shall mean the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969.  
“NEPA Approvals” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.01(a). 
“New Jersey” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital A to this Agreement.  
“New York” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital A to this Agreement. 
“Oversight” shall have the meaning set for in Section 2.02. 
“Party” shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. 
“Parties” shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. 
“PDA Parties” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital F to this Agreement. 
“PMP” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.05. 
“Port Authority” shall have the meaning set forth in the preamble to this Agreement. 
“Port Authority SPCC Representative” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.02(b). 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
A-3 
 
“Port Authority Staffing Plan and Budget” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.02(b).  
“Port Authority TSC Representative” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.03(b). 
“Procurement Documents” means GDC’s primary procurement documents related to the Work, 
including any requests for qualifications, requests for proposals, invitations for bids, evaluation 
criteria, and terms and conditions of the applicable contracts to be awarded for the Work.  
“Project Budget” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.01(j). 
“Project Development Agreement ” or “PDA” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital F 
to this Agreement. 
“PTE” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 5.02(b).  
“Rail Activation Plan” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 9.07.  
“ROD” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.01(a).  
“SCC” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.04(c). 
“SEP” or “Supporting or Executing Partner” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital H to 
this Agreement. 
“Senior Roles” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.02(a). 
“Services” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital K to this Agreement.  
“SPCC” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.02(a).  
“Standard of Care” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.01. 
“TPH” shall have the meaning set forth in Recital J of this Agreement.  
“TSC” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 3.03(a). 
“Unplanned Costs” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.01.  
“Work” shall have the meaning set forth in in Recital K to this Agreement. 
“Work Budget” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(c).  
“Work Contracts” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.05. 
“Work Contract Documents” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 4.05. 
“Work Contractor” and “Work Contractors” shall have the meanings set forth in Section 4.01. 
“Work Schedule” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 2.02(c).  
“Work Permits” shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.02(a). 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
B-1 
EXHIBIT B 
PTE FORMS 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
PTEs will be substantially similar to the following but revised to reflect the specific
locations and geographic features of the area for which entrance is granted.


=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
 
NJ TRANSIT TEMPORARY ACCESS PERMIT NO.     
RE:  CONSTRUCTION OF BRIDGE CARRYING TONNELLE AVENUE OVER 
RAILROAD TRACKS FOR HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT MATERIALS AND 
RELATED WORK 
Effective Date:     
 
New Jersey Transit (“NJ TRANSIT”), a public instrumentality of the State of New Jersey, 
headquartered at One Penn Plaza East, Raymond Boulevard, Newark, NJ 07105, hereby 
grants this Temporary Access Permit (“Permit”) to the ______, Contractor of Gateway 
Development Commission (“Permittee”) for access to 1801-2001 Tonnelle Avenue, 2100 
Tonnelle Avenue, and 2126 Tonnelle Avenue, North Bergen, Hudson County, New 
Jersey, (“NJ TRANSIT Property”), as to the performance of construction of the bridge 
carrying U.S. Routes 1 and 9 (Tonnelle Avenue) and related work. The activities permitted 
to be conducted by Permittee shall be referred to as Permittee’s work (“Work”). Permittee 
is a contractor of Gateway Development Commission (“GDC”), under contract with GDC 
to perform the Work. This Permit is not intended to grant Permittee access to the NJ 
TRANSIT Property beyond what is set forth in the access agreement between NJ 
TRANSIT and GDC (“Agreement”). 
This Permit is effective as of the date of execution of the Agreement and extends for a 
period of three (3) years (“Term”).  
The Permittee is restricted to the scope of access in the Agreement only and may not use 
other property owned by NJ TRANSIT. NJ TRANSIT is under no obligation to issue a 
Permit to Permittee in the future. Moreover, this Permit shall not prevent NJ TRANSIT 
from allowing other parties to enter the NJ TRANSIT Property during the course of 
Permittee’s Work. This Permit shall not be deemed or be construed to transfer any interest 
in the NJ TRANSIT Property to Permittee, or any future right to enter or to use the NJ 
TRANSIT Property after the Term.  
This Permit is also subject to the following additional restrictions, conditions, and 
covenants: 
1. Governing Law: The provisions of this Permit and all rights and obligations herein 
shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New Jersey and any 
applicable federal laws. Jurisdiction of any dispute arising out of this Permit shall 
be limited to the Superior Court of New Jersey.  
 
2. Fees and Expenses: Prior to the Work, Permittee shall pay NJ TRANSIT One 
Thousand Five Hundred Dollars ($1,500.00), as a general access fee during the 
Term.  
3. End of Term: No Work shall be done beyond the Term of this Permit, unless the 
Term is extended at the written consent of NJ TRANSIT. Permittee must notify NJ 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
 
TRANSIT of the intent to extend before the end of the Term; otherwise, Permittee 
will have to apply for a new Permit.  
 
4. Pre-Notice as to Start of Work: It is expressly understood that forty-eight (48) 
hours’ notice is to be given prior to the commencement of Work. Permittee shall 
contact John Geitner, NJ TRANSIT’s Senior Director of Environment, Energy, and 
Sustainability, at 973-491-7017 (office) in order to coordinate the Work or access 
to the NJ TRANSIT Property thereof. NJ TRANSIT will provide Permittee with 
written notice when entry may occur.  
 
 
5. Storage of Equipment and Vehicles On Site: The Permittee agrees that it will, at 
its own sole cost and expense, use only that portion of the NJ TRANSIT Property 
designated for lay down and storage of construction materials. Upon completion 
of the Work, Permittee will remove all equipment, materials, and vehicles from the 
site and leave the site in as good or better condition as before the Work 
commenced. During the Term, Permittee will be responsible to maintain its 
equipment, materials, and vehicles in a safe and workmanlike manner, to the 
satisfaction of NJ TRANSIT. In the event of emergency, Permittee shall take 
immediate corrective action and shall notify John Geitner, NJ TRANSIT’s Senior 
Director of Environment, Energy, and Sustainability, at 973-491-7017. Permittee 
will not perform any excavation on the NJ TRANSIT Property.  
 
6. Environmental Conditions: Permittee acknowledges that the subject property has 
low levels of historic fill contamination. Permittee will abide by the Environmental 
Conditions set forth in the Agreement. In addition to the Environmental Conditions 
set forth therein, Permittee agrees to conduct all activities under this Permit in 
accordance with applicable Deed Notices, Federal and State laws, rules and 
regulations, including, but not limited to, those which are designed to prevent or 
control the discharge of substances into the land, water, or air, and those designed 
to protect individual health and safety.  
 
7. NJ TRANSIT’s Right to be On Site During Work: NJ TRANSIT reserves the right 
to be on site during the time Work is being conducted by Permittee, and NJ 
TRANSIT representatives may direct cessation of the Work, or any part thereof 
within its discretion, and in particular where the Work causes or may cause 
disturbance of the soil or current cap, such that it exposes contaminants or spreads 
mud or soil beyond confines of the NJ TRANSIT Property.  
 
8. Damages: Permittee shall make full restitution to NJ TRANSIT for all damage to 
NJ TRANSIT’s Property that may occur during the period of the Permit caused 
directly or indirectly by Permittee or its contractors of any tier. Permittee shall be 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
 
strictly and completely responsible for the remediation of any hazardous 
substances that spill, or are caused to be released, onto the NJ TRANSIT Property 
as a result of the direct or indirect actions of the Permittee. NJ TRANSIT’s Property 
will be restored to the same condition as prior to Permittee’s entry onto the NJ 
TRANSIT Property.  
 
9. Excavation and Grading: Permittee agrees to abide by the safety protocol for 
excavation and grading activities set forth in Section 4(f) of the Agreement. NJ 
TRANSIT reserves the right to cause GDC and Permittee to cease work on the 
Project where there is an imminent danger to the traveling public and/or the 
workers on the NJ TRANSIT Property that has not been corrected by a contractor 
of any tier within one business day. 
 
10. Removal of Concrete Beams and Storage Compartments: Permittee 
acknowledges that there are existing pre-stressed concrete beams and storage 
compartments on the NJ TRANSIT Property that need to be removed before 
excavation occurs. Permittee agrees that it will remove the concrete beams and 
compartments in accordance with the Terms in Section 3(c) of the Agreement.  
 
11. Indemnification: Permittee shall and shall cause its contractors of any tier, agents, 
and representatives to indemnify, defend, keep, and save harmless the State of 
New Jersey, NJ TRANSIT, their successors, assigns, contractors, agents, 
employees, servants or officials, and each and every one of them or any designee 
of NJ TRANSIT against all claims, losses or liabilities, just or unjust, made against 
NJ TRANSIT on account of injury, death, property damage, losses of any kind 
whatsoever, damages, suits, actions, liabilities, judgments, proceedings or costs 
arising from the Permittee’s violation of any Deed Notices, laws, rules or 
regulations, claims for infringement of patent, trademark or copyright, cost and 
expenses which may in any way accrue against NJ TRANSIT in consequence of 
granting this Permit, and whether or not it shall be alleged or determined that the 
cause thereof was the negligent acts or omissions of NJ TRANSIT and whenever 
such suits, actions, claims or proceedings shall be commenced, or whenever such 
costs accrued. The Permittee shall appear, defend and pay, at its own expense, 
all costs, including counsel fees, arising therefrom or incurred in connection 
therewith, and, if any judgment shall be rendered against NJ TRANSIT in any such 
action, the Permittee shall, at its own expense, satisfy and discharge the same. 
Proof of indemnification by all contractors of any tier performing any Work within 
the NJ TRANSIT Property shall be demonstrated for each such contractor of any 
tier by executing a copy of this Permit prior to entry. 
 
12. Insurance: Permittee shall carry for the entire period of occupancy permitted 
herein, insurance coverage in the kinds and minimum amounts specified in the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
 
Agreement dated    attached hereto and made a part hereof as if set forth 
at length. 
 
13. Title and Suitability: Nothing in this Permit shall act as or be deemed to act as any 
warranty, guaranty or representation of the quality of NJ TRANSIT’s title for any 
particular NJ TRANSIT property, used or enjoyed in any manner by Permittee 
under any rights created in this Permit. Permittee will accept the grants and 
privileges contained herein, subject to all lawful outstanding existing liens, 
mortgages and superior rights in and to the NJ TRANSIT Property, and all leases, 
easements, permits, and licenses or other interests previously granted to others 
therein.  
 
 
14. Non-Assignable: It is expressly understood that this Permit is not transferable and 
therefore shall not be assigned or otherwise transferred by the Permittee to anyone 
else. 
 
15. No Reliance by Reason of Issuance of this Permit: This Permit or issuance thereof 
shall not constitute an agreement, representation or guarantee by NJ TRANSIT to 
issue any future permits or to allow its property to be used in the future by Permittee 
for any purpose or for any reason. Issuance of this Permit to conduct the Work 
shall not constitute reliance by Permittee of any express or implied promise as to 
future use of the NJ TRANSIT Property for any reason. Costs of the Work shall be 
totally borne by Permittee. No promises, warranties, or guarantees as to future use 
of survey of subject or adjacent property is made or implied. 
 
16. Permit Revocable: Violation of any of these covenants and/or conditions by the 
Permittee may be cause for summary revocation of this Permit by NJ TRANSIT. 
Furthermore, NJ TRANSIT, within its reasonable discretion, reserves the right to 
revoke this Permit, for any reason, including all privileges and permission granted 
pursuant to it upon three (3) calendar days’ written notification to Permittee. 
Restoration of the NJ TRANSIT Property to its former condition, all at the sole 
expense of the Permittee, will be required upon revocation of this Permit to the 
extent permitted herein.  
 
17. Use of Property:  The use of the NJ TRANSIT Property shall abide by the terms of 
the Agreement dated ____ attached hereto and made a part hereof. 
 
 
 
 
[Intentionally left blank] 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
 
 
WITNESS: 
 
NEW JERSEY TRANSIT CORPORATION 
 
 
        
 
Name:       Date:  
Title:  
 
This Permit is to be signed by the Permittee’s authorized officials who agree 
to abide by the terms thereof on behalf of the Permittee. 
 
PERMITTEE 
 
 
        
 
Name:       Date:  
Title: 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 1 of 16 
The New Jersey Transit Corporation, an instrumentality of the State of New Jersey with 
offices located at One Penn Plaza East, Newark, New Jersey 07105 ("NJ Transit"), grants 
permission to ________________, with an office located at ________________, 
Telephone number______________, hereinafter referred to as the "Permittee," to enter 
upon NJ Transit Property identified as the Hudson Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
(“HBLR”) at the locations identified on Exhibit A, attached hereto and identified herein as 
the “Property,” for the purposes of performing the Work (hereinafter defined) set forth in the 
Permittee's proposal attached as Exhibit  B, attached hereto, and no other purpose, subject 
to the following terms and conditions: 
  
1.   The Permittee is fully responsible for adherence to the terms and conditions of this 
Temporary Access Permit (“Permit”). In no event will NJ Transit be responsible for 
any costs or expenses related to this Permit.  
    
2.   This Permit allows only the use of the Property by the Permittee, their authorized 
representatives(s), or contractors, and no others, commencing upon the date of 
execution of this Permit by NJ Transit. The Permittee shall provide NJ Transit with a 
list of their authorized agents and contractors to NJTransit prior to entry upon the 
Property. 
  
3. Use of the Property is restricted to those areas as identified in Exhibit A. Under no 
circumstances shall this Permit be construed as granting to the Permittee any right, 
title, or interest of any kind in any property of NJ Transit. 
 
4. The Permittee, subject to the provisions contained herein, may enter upon and use 
the Property only when protected by a flagman or flagmen supplied by NJ Transit or 
21st Century Rail Group (the “Contract Operator”) unless specifically otherwise 
authorized in writing by NJ Transit.  Normal hours of work are from 9:00 AM to 3:30 
PM Monday through Friday, excluding holidays. The purpose of the flagman is to 
protect the HBLR from the actions of the contractor. The flagman is not intended to 
safeguard the Permittee's crew.  All Permittee's field personnel and its agents shall 
be trained in accordance with the HBLR Safety training program prior to entering the 
Property. 
   
5. All notices required by this Permit shall be sent in writing to the following:  
 
Mr. Gregory G. Woods 
Chief 
Light Rail Operations  
NJ Transit Corp., One Penn Plaza East,  
Newark NJ 07105-2246 
(973) 491-7840 
  
 
 
 
Mr. Jamaal McClintock 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 2 of 16 
President & CEO 
Twenty-First Century Rail Corporation (Contract Operator) 
20 Caven Point Avenue, Jersey City New Jersey, 07305-4604 
(201) 209-2553 
 
In addition, the Permittee shall provide written notification a minimum of fourteen 
(14) days prior to initiating any Work (hereinafter defined) to aforementioned 
individuals to schedule flagmen, safety training, and all related support services.   
6. The Permittee hereby acknowledges that the Property is generally restricted as to 
excavation and that any proposed excavation shall require the prior submission to 
NJ Transit and its Contract Operator of a plan describing proposed materials 
management, including control of groundwater and surface flows, transportation, 
and testing of material to be removed from the site, including the disposal site and a 
health and safety plan covering worker exposure. These plan elements shall be 
approved by NJ Transit and NJDEP, if deemed necessary by NJ Transit, prior to 
start of the Work (hereinafter defined) and access to the Property. The Permittee 
shall comply with all requirements of any Deed Notices affecting the Property.   
7. NJ Transit, through the Contract Operator, shall have complete approval rights over 
the activities of the Permittee associated with the use hereby permitted, including 
the actions of personnel of the Permittee regarding HBLR activities and system 
safety. NJ Transit's approval of such activities, however, shall not reduce or 
eliminate the Permittee's liability under this Permit for any negligent or intentional 
acts or omissions. 
8. All activities shall be performed without interference to HBLR construction or 
operations. NJ Transit reserves the right to approve all means and methods to be 
employed in the work described in Exhibit B (the "Work"). 
  
9.  The Work will conform to the applicable requirements of the "Specifications For 
Pipeline Occupancy of New Jersey Transit" and the "General Requirements for 
Working Within Right-of-Way," both of which the Permittee hereby acknowledges 
having received. NJ Transit may withhold its approval to proceed with the Work if at 
any time or times the Work will in any manner endanger persons or property, and 
may condition its approval on the Permittee’s agreement to take such precautions 
and measures as NJ Transit may deem advisable in its sole discretion. Any review 
of the Permittee’s plans and specifications, comments theron, or monitoring of the 
Work shall not constitute nor shall be construed as a representation or warranty on 
the part of NJ Transit or its Contract Operator as to the adequacy or propriety of 
such plans and specifications or the means or methods of the Work. 
  
10. In case of an emergency, the Permittee must contact the Contract Operator at 
201-209-2555, and at any other number of which Contract Operator advises the 
Permittee to use. The Permittee also must contact NJ Transit's emergency 
police desk at (800) 242-0236 or (973) 378-6565. 
 
11. The Permittee must contact NJ-1-Call at (800) 272-1000 to identify buried third-party 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 3 of 16 
facilities prior to performing any excavation work within NJ TRANSIT’s right-of-way.  
If Permittee fails to timely provide such notification to NJ-1-Call, the Permit will 
immediately be canceled.   
12. All workers must maintain a distance of no less than eighteen (18) feet from the 
track, and any tools, vehicles, or equipment being utilized must not extend closer 
than eighteen (18) feet from the track.   
13. All equipment and materials to be used upon the property of NJ TRANSIT shall be 
kept at all times at least fifteen (15) feet from all signal, communication, and 
overhead catenary systems unless protected by a representative of the Contract 
Operator.   
 
14. Upon the approach of a light rail transit car, rail maintenance equipment, or any train 
adjacent to the site of the Work, the Permittee's workers shall cease work, face the 
moving equipment, and stand clear of the tracks. 
  
15. No workers are permitted to cross the tracks at any area other than temporary or 
permanent crossings without authorization from the Contract Operator or its 
designee. 
  
16. No tools or working materials are permitted to be stored on the Property or on the 
right-of-way. No equipment shall be transported across the track or tracks without 
the special permission of the Contract Operator, obtained in writing, and without the 
use of appropriate support. 
  
17. The Permittee shall be solely responsible for damage to any above- or below-grade 
utilities or operating systems belonging either to NJ Transit or third-party utilities, 
and shall hold harmless, defend, and indemnify NJ Transit and the Contract 
Operator for any breaches of this covenant.  
  
18. If the Work requires any aerial lifting or work over NJ Transit or other rail tracks, 
such Work will be performed in accordance with NJ Transit's General Requirements 
for Working Within Right-of-Way, a copy of which the Permittee hereby 
acknowledges having received.  
  
19. Subject to the provisions of Section 23, NJ Transit shall request that the Contract 
Operator provide adequate support staff to support the Work and to protect HBLR 
operations, at the cost of the Permittee. 
  
(a) The Permittee shall be responsible for all actual costs incurred and expenses 
associated with the Work (“Project Expenses”). The Permittee shall 
reimburse NJ Transit for all actual labor costs and direct expenses in 
connection with providing flagging protection, construction inspection, project 
management, and any necessary force account support for the continued 
maintenance and operation of HBLR and any specific work required or 
requested by the Permittee, whether provided by the Contract Operator or NJ 
Transit. Any material usage will be billed at the actual cost incurred of 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 4 of 16 
material plus the current applicable overhead percentages for storage, 
handling, transportation, purchasing, and other related material management 
expenses. All hours incurred will be billed including, but not limited to, 
contractual overtime and travel time. 
(b) NJ Transit and the Contract Operator will prepare Standard Daily 
Participation Reports to be verified by the Permittee’s field personnel that will 
identify all daily direct labor, equipment, and vehicles necessary to support 
the Work.  
(c) The Permittee shall remit payment to NJ Transit within thirty (30) days after 
receipt of an invoice. The Permittee shall pay NJ Transit a late charge of 
three (3%) percent of the total unpaid invoice amount for every month the 
invoice is owed and outstanding until the invoice is paid in full. Any 
reasonably disputed cost item(s) in any invoice shall be deducted from the 
amount to be paid to NJ Transit provided the disputed items are documented 
in writing and submitted to the pursuant to the Notice requirements contained 
in Section 5. Upon resolution, all disputed amounts remaining due will be 
paid within thirty (30) days. 
  
20. The Permittee has deposited with NJ Transit the sum of ______________ 
($______________) in order to reimburse NJ Transit for its Project Expenses and 
any other costs that may be due pursuant to this Permit. NJ Transit will hold these 
funds in a prepaid account (“Prepaid Account”). The funds in the Prepaid Account 
may be drawn upon by NJ Transit to reimburse NJ Transit for its Project Expenses 
and any other costs that may be due pursuant to this Permit. The Permittee shall 
authorize payment to NJ Transit from the Prepaid Account within thirty (30) days 
after receipt of an invoice from NJ Transit. Any reasonably disputed cost item(s) in 
any invoice may be deducted by the Permittee from the amount to be paid NJ 
Transit provided the disputed items are sufficiently documented in writing and 
submitted pursuant to the Notice requirements in Section 5. Upon resolution of such 
dispute, all disputed amounts remaining due will be deducted from the Prepaid 
Account. The Permittee shall maintain a minimum of $________ in the Prepaid 
Account until no further payments are owed to NJ Transit and no payments are in 
dispute. NJ Transit may advise the Permittee when additional funds are required to 
replenish the account. NJ Transit may immediately terminate the Permit if the 
Permittee fails to provide such additional funds to NJ Transit within five (5) business 
days after notification from NJ Transit. In the event any funds remain in the Prepaid 
Account after completion of the Work, the Permittee will provide notice to NJ Transit 
of its demand for release of the funds. If and when no further payments are owed to 
NJ Transit or if no payments are in dispute, NJ Transit will release the remaining 
balance in the Prepaid Account to the Permittee. 
 
 
21. Before leaving the Property identified in Exhibit A, the Permittee shall restore the 
Property at its sole cost and expense to the same condition it was in prior to start of 
the Work, and such restoration work shall be approved by Contract Operator or NJ 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 5 of 16 
Transit. If the Permittee fails to commence or complete said restoration work, NJ 
Transit or the Contract Operator may undertake such restoration work and the 
Permittee hereby agrees to reimburse NJ Transit for all costs and expenses in 
connection therewith.  
 
22. In granting this Permit, NJ Transit or the Contract Operator will assume no obligation 
whatsoever in connection with the use, Work and or occupancy of the Property by 
the Permittee and is not obligated to make any repairs to the Property or furnish 
workers, equipment or materials in connection with the use, Work and/or occupancy 
by the Permittee.  
 
23. Availability of support staff is subject to operational requirements of the Contract 
Operator and NJ Transit.  NJ Transit or the Contract Operator makes no guarantee 
of the availability of support staff in the issuance of the Permit. Neither NJ Transit 
nor the Contract Operator will be responsible for any delays or damages due to the 
unavailability of support staff for the Work described in Exhibit B. 
  
24. Indemnification 
 
(a) To the fullest extent permitted by Law, the Permittee, and any of its 
Contractors, shall indemnify, defend, keep and save harmless the State of 
New Jersey, NJ Transit, its Contract Operator, and other railroad(s) operating 
on the affected property, their successors, assigns, contractors, agents, 
employees, servants or officials, and each and every one of them or any 
other designee of NJ Transit, (the “Indemnified Parties”) from and against 
any and all claims, just or unjust, made against NJ Transit or the Indemnified 
Parties on account of injuries, deaths, losses of any kind whatsoever, 
damages, suits, liabilities, judgments, claims for infringement of patent, 
trademark or copyright, cost and expenses which may in anywise accrue 
against the NJ Transit or Indemnified Parties in consequence of the granting 
of a Permit or which may in anywise result therefrom, and whether or not it 
shall be alleged or determined that the cause thereof was the negligent acts 
or omissions of the NJ Transit or the Indemnified Parties and the Permittee 
shall appear, defend and pay, as its own expense, all costs, including 
counsel fees, arising therefrom or incurred in connection therewith, and, if 
any judgment shall be rendered against the NJ Transit or the Indemnified 
Parties in any such action, the Permittee shall, at its own expense, satisfy 
and discharge the same. 
 
(b) The light rail operations at or near the site of the Work involve some risk, and 
the Permittee, as part of the consideration for a Permit, and with full 
knowledge and appreciation of such risk, shall release and waive any right to 
ask for or demand any special, direct, incidental, indirect, punitive, reliance or 
consequential damages, whether foreseeable or not, for or on account of any 
loss or injury to any property of the Permittee and its employees, including 
property in the care, custody, and control of the Permittee, and to the 
Facilities and contents thereof that are over, under, upon, or in the property 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 6 of 16 
of NJ Transit or the Contract Operator, including loss of, or interference with, 
service or use thereof, or loss of profits or revenue, cost of capital, cost of 
replacement services, claims of customers or third parties,  whether or not it 
shall be alleged or determined that the cause thereof was breach of contract, 
breach of warranty, negligent acts or omissions of the Indemnified Parties or 
the Permittee, their successors, assigns, contractors, agents, employees, 
servants and officials or of other persons. 
 
25. In addition to other insurance carried by the Permittee, the Permittee shall carry, and 
cause to have carried during the Work, through and for the entire period of 
occupancy permitted herein, insurance coverage of the following kinds and 
minimum amounts: 
 
(a) Permittee's Comprehensive General Liability Insurance   
 
The Permittee, and its Contractors, shall purchase and maintain a 
comprehensive general liability policy of insurance. This policy shall protect 
the Permittee, NJ Transit and the Indemnified Parties, against liability which 
arises in consequence of granting this Permit, including access thereto over 
NJ Transit‘s adjacent property and/or which arises from any of the claims 
indicated in Indemnification Section 24(a) and (b) against which the 
Permittee is required to indemnify NJ Transit.  The policy is to be written by a 
good and solvent insurance company authorized to do business in New 
Jersey with an A.M. BEST Insurance Rating of “A-” or better or by companies 
acceptable to NJ Transit. This policy shall name NJ Transit, the State of New 
Jersey, and the Indemnified Parties as an additional insured by policy 
endorsement. The liability policy(ies) and insurance shall include a cross-
liability coverage providing severability of interests so that coverage will 
respond as if separate policies were in force for each insured. The coverage 
limits of the policy shall be not less than $5,000,000 combined single limit per 
occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.  NJ Transit reserves the 
right to require reasonable increases in the coverage limits from time to time.  
In addition, the policy shall include an ISO endorsement Form CG 24 17 10 
01 or its equivalent providing contractual liability coverage for railroads listed 
as additional insureds. 
 
(b) Automobile Liability Insurance 
 
Minimum of two million dollars ($2,000,000) combined single limit per 
accident for bodily injury and property damage liability.  This policy shall 
name NJ Transit and the Indemnified Parties as an additional insured. 
 
(c) Contractors' and/or Subcontractors' Comprehensive General Liability 
Insurance  
 
The Permittee shall furnish evidence by virtue of a standard certificate of 
insurance that, with respect to any work or activities performed by its 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 7 of 16 
contractors and/or subcontractors hereunder, they carry in their own behalf 
Comprehensive General Liability Insurance in the amount of $5,000,000 per 
occurrence for damages arising out of bodily injuries or death and/or Property 
Damage. Coverage provided under this liability policy shall be on an 
occurrence basis and shall include, but not be limited to, premises operations 
liability, personal injury liability, property damage liability, contractual liability, 
independent contractors’ liability and products liability. There shall be no 
coverage exceptions for property containing or adjacent to railroad facilities.  
This policy shall name NJ Transit, the State of New Jersey, and the 
Indemnified Parties as an additional insured. The liability policy(ies) and 
insurance shall include a cross-liability coverage providing severability of 
interests so that coverage will respond as if separate policies were in force 
for each insured.  Should the Permittee be self-insured, it is required to 
supply annually a letter certifying that it is self-insured and is complying with 
all laws and regulations required for self-insurance. 
 
(d) Contractor’s Pollution Liability Insurance 
 
The Permittee, or its Contractors shall procure contractor’s pollution liability 
insurance covering the obligations assumed under the Permit and covering 
claims arising out of any sudden and/or non-sudden pollution or impairment 
of the environment, including clean-up costs and defense that arise from the 
operation of contractor or its subcontractor.  Coverage under this policy shall 
have limits of liability with a minimum of $2,000,000 per occurrence. This 
policy shall name NJ Transit and the Indemnified Parties as additional 
insured.  
 
(e) Professional Liability insurance with a limit of not less than five million dollars 
($5,000,000) per claim where the Work involves or includes Contractor 
providing or performing design, architectural, engineering, consulting, or any 
professional services. If Contractor’s services include software development, 
systems development, or outsourced systems, the insurance shall include 
coverage for liability arising from intellectual property infringement, 
information technology, and software development services.  If the 
Professional Liability insurance is claims-made, the coverage shall remain in 
place for the greater of: (i) three (3) years from the expiration of this Contract 
as amended; or (ii) three (3) years from the date Company accepts the Work. 
 
 
 
 
(f) Railroad Protective Public Liability Insurance 
 
If work is to be performed within 50 feet of the HBLR right-of-way, in addition 
to the above the Permittee shall furnish evidence in the form of one signed 
copy and one certified copy of the Railroad Protective Public Liability 
Insurance Policy that, with respect to the operations it, its contractors, or any 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 8 of 16 
of its subcontractors perform, it has provided Railroad Protective Public 
Liability Insurance (AAR- AASHO form) in the name of NJ Transit, Twenty 
First Century Rail Corp., providing for a limit of not less than $2,000,000 
single limit bodily injury and/or property damage combined, for damages 
arising out of bodily injuries to or death of all persons in any one occurrence 
and for damage to or destruction of property, including the loss of use 
thereof, in any one occurrence.  Such insurance shall be furnished with an 
aggregate of not less than $6,000,000 for all damages as a result of more 
than one occurrence. (Reference:  "Standard Provisions for General Liability 
Policies" as contained in U.S. Department of Transportation, Federal 
Highway Administration, Federal Aid Highway Program Manual, Volume 6, 
Chapter 6, Section 2, Subsection 2, Attachment I, as amended).   
 
(i) The address of NJ Transit Corp. shall appear as Director of Risk 
Management and Insurance, One Penn Plaza East, Newark, New 
Jersey 07105-2246.  The insurance hereinbefore specified shall be 
carried until all work required to be performed under the terms of the 
contract is satisfactorily completed and formally accepted. 
 
(g) Workers' Compensation and Employer's Liability Insurance 
 
The Permittee shall provide to NJ Transit a certificate of insurance showing 
that the coverage the Permittee, its contractors and its subcontractors carry 
for Workers' Compensation is within the statutory limits of the State of New 
Jersey.  In case any class of employees performing the Work under this 
Permit is not protected under the Workers’ Compensation Statute, the 
Permittee shall provide and shall cause each contractor and subcontractor to 
provide employer’s liability insurance for the protection of each of its 
employees as are not otherwise protected. Limits of Employer Liability are as 
follows: 
 
Employer’s Liability  $1,000,000 each accident 
      $1,000,000 each employee disease 
      $1,000,000 policy limit – disease 
 
 (h)   (i)  All insurance required by the Permit shall be provided at the sole cost of 
the Permittee and shall be in full force and effect until all work is completed to 
the satisfaction of NJ Transit.  Proof of insurance must be provided prior to 
entering upon the property, with a copy of the general accord statement 
being supplied to NJ Transit‘s Manager Right-of-Way Engineering or his 
representative. 
 
(ii) All insurance policies or certificates shall contain the following cancellation 
notice: 
 
“This policy is not subject to cancellation or change until thirty 
(30) days after NJ Transit has received written notice thereof 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 9 of 16 
as evidenced by return receipt of a registered letter addressed 
to the Director, Risk Management and Insurance, 7th Floor, NJ 
Transit Corp., One Penn Plaza East, Newark, New Jersey, 
07105-2246.” 
 
(iii) All hazards to be covered shall include the so-called "XCU" coverage for 
explosion, collapse, and damage where work is to be done over or under NJ 
Transit owned railroad property. 
 
(i) The foregoing insurance coverage is not intended to, nor does it limit the 
liability of the Permittee to hold the Indemnified Parties harmless as set forth 
in Section 24 above. 
 
(j) All policies shall be primary and non-contributory, and any insurance or self-
insurance maintained by NJ Transit shall not contribute to any loss. Further, 
the insurances shall contain a waiver of subrogation in the benefit of NJ 
Transit.  
 
(k) All insurance certificates must bear this NJ Transit Permit number and the 
original certificate shall be provided to NJ Transit. Copies of these certificates 
shall be attached to this permit as Exhibit C and shall be provided prior to the 
execution of the permit. Each certificate shall bear this Permit Number. An 
originally-signed version of the executed TAPs with all exhibits, including the 
COIs, will be sent by NJ Transit to the Contract Operator. 
 
26. Neither NJ Transit or its Contract Operator shall be liable to the Permittee for loss, 
damage or liability of any kind or nature whatsoever sustained by the Permittee, its 
successors, and assigns by reason of any failure to fulfill their obligations herein in 
the event of: any strike or walkout on the part of its employees or on the part of any 
other person or persons:  any embargo or requirement of any federal, state, 
municipal, or other governmental authority; or of any other event of any kind beyond 
the control of NJ Transit or its Contract Operator that in any way affects the ability of 
NJ Transit or its Contract Operator to perform its obligations herein. The Permittee 
shall not engage in any labor practices that result in labor disharmony between NJ 
Transit or its Contract Operator and any of their labor forces.  
 
27. The Permittee, at its sole cost and expense, shall obtain such licenses, permits or 
authority from Federal, State, Municipal or other government bodies or agencies as 
may be necessary and shall pay any and all fees, assessments and all federal, state 
and municipal taxes or other charges imposed or levied upon the operations 
described herein and shall save NJ Transit harmless from any and all fines, 
penalties taxes fees or other liabilities arising in connection with any and all activities 
conducted by the Permittee on NJ Transit Property.  
  
28. The accepted Permit shall be accompanied by a check in the amount of $500.00 as 
compensation for preparation of this Permit. Upon receipt of the funds, and all other 
required documents necessary to approve the permit, the executed Permit will be 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 10 of 16 
returned to the Permittee and a copy sent to the Contract Operator. As detailed in 
Section 19 the Permittee shall reimburse NJ Transit for any additional labor, 
equipment and material costs incurred either by NJ Transit or the Contract Operator 
resulting from the issuance of this Permit. The Permittee will make payment within 
thirty (30) days of receipt of invoicing. 
  
29. Should the Permittee cancel or not appear as permitted herein, no refund shall be 
made of the fees paid by the Permittee, and the Permittee shall also reimburse all 
expenses incurred by NJ Transit or its Contract Operator in connection with issuing 
this Permit. 
  
30. This Permit may be terminated or suspended by NJ Transit if the Permit conditions 
are not met or if in the sole opinion of NJ Transit, the actions or inactions of the 
Permittee affect system safety or operations or both. NJ Transit shall have the sole 
discretion to immediately terminate or suspend this Permit without advance notice to 
the Permittee.  If the actions or inactions of the Permittee are such that they do not 
immediately affect the system safety or both, NJ Transit shall notify the Permittee in 
writing that the Permittee's actions or inactions constitute a breach of the Permit.  In 
such an event, the Permittee shall immediately cure such a breach or if it does not 
do so within five days of notice NJ Transit shall have the right to terminate the 
Permit without further notice.  In the alternative, NJ Transit may elect to correct the 
breach of the Permit and charge the Permittee all costs (both direct and indirect) 
attributable to such action on the part of NJ Transit.  Any unauthorized activities by 
the Permittee on the Property not specifically allowed herein may be considered 
grounds for termination of this Permit. 
  
31. This Permit may be modified by an amendment executed by both the Permittee and 
NJ Transit. 
  
32. Environmental Provisions 
 
(a) The Permittee shall provide NJ Transit with copies of laboratory results for all 
environmental testing conducted on the Property. The Permittee shall also 
provide NJ Transit with copies of all environmental reports and 
correspondence with regulatory authorities regarding any environmental 
issues on the Property. The Permitee shall be responsible for all notification 
and filing requirements of any governmental agency having jurisdiction over 
the Property.  
 
(b) The Permittee shall conduct all activities under this Permit in accordance with 
all applicable Deed Notices, Federal, State and local laws, rules and 
regulations, including, but not limited to, those which are designed to prevent 
or control the discharge of substances into the land, water or air; those 
designed to protect individual health and safety. 
 
(c) The Permittee will indemnify, hold harmless and defend NJ Transit and the 
Indemnified Parties from and against any and all suits, actions, proceedings 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 11 of 16 
costs, fines, penalties and claims arising from the Permittee's violation of any 
such Deed Notices, laws, rules or regulations whenever such suits, actions, 
claims, or proceedings shall be commenced, or whenever such costs are 
accrued. The Permittee shall take necessary precautions to prevent the 
discharge of hazardous substances, including but not limited to, asbestos 
and petroleum products onto the Property or into the environment including 
the air. The indemnification obligations herein shall survive the completion or 
termination of this Permit.  
 
(d) The Permittee shall be responsible for the remediation of any hazardous 
substances that spill, or caused to be released, onto the Property as the 
result of the Permittee’s actions. 
 
(e) The Permittee shall submit a deposit of $1,000 for each permanent 
monitoring well that the Permittee proposes to install on the Property. Upon 
notification by NJDEP that a monitoring well is no longer required, the 
Permittee shall close said monitoring well within thirty (30) days of such 
notification, at which point the deposit will be returned. If the Permittee fails to 
close the monitoring well within the specified period, the deposit will be 
forfeited and NJ Transit will close the monitoring well. 
 
(f) All waste materials, including drill cuttings, soil borings, well development and 
purge water, used personal protective and disposable sampling equipment, 
and decontamination wastes shall be the property of the Permittee, who shall 
be the generator of record. Such wastes shall be removed from the Property 
at the close of work each day. 
 
(g) Failure to comply with environmental requirements shall be considered 
grounds for default and NJ Transit may terminate or suspend this Permit in 
accordance with Section 30. In addition, NJ Transit reserves the right to 
notify regulatory authorities if it believes that any laws or regulations have 
been violated by the Permittee. 
 
33. The Permitee shall comply with the Hi-Voltage Proximity Act of the State of New 
Jersey. The Permittee acknowledges that such compliance may require special 
workmanship, bonding, grounding, blocking and guarding procedures and hereby 
assumes all responsibility for all costs in connection therewith.  
 
34. No director, Commissioner, officer, agent or employee of the Permittee and NJ 
Transit shall be charged personally with any liability or held liable under any term or 
provision of this Permit or because of its execution or attempted execution because 
of any breach hereof.   
 
35. This Permit shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New 
Jersey. This Permit constitutes the entire agreement between the parties on the 
subject matter and may not be changed, modified, discharged or extended except 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 12 of 16 
by an instrument executed by both parties.   
  
36. Unless stipulated elsewhere herein, this Permit shall terminate upon the earlier 
occurrence of one (1) year from the date of execution or upon the completion of the 
Work required in Exhibit B. The Permittee shall notify NJ Transit when the Work is 
completed by submitting the “Work Completion Form” attached hereto as Exhibit D. 
The Permittee’s obligations pursuant to Sections 17, 21, 24, 25, 26, 27, 32 and 33 
shall survive termination of this Permit.  
  
37. In the event that the "Permittee" actually consists of more than one individual or 
entity, the liability of such individuals or entities shall be joint and several under this 
Permit.  
  
38. NJ Transit reserves the right to approve all contractors and subcontractors involved 
in the Work, provided, however, that NJ Transit's approval of a particular contractor 
or subcontractor shall not impair or reduce the Permittee's liability hereunder.  
 
39. This permit is being signed and delivered by a legally authorized representative of 
the Permittee as its duly authorized and voluntary act.   
 
40. This temporary access Permit and its terms and conditions are agreed to as of the 
_____ day of _______________, ______. 
 
  
 
(SIGNATURE PAGE TO FOLLOW) 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NJ Transit Corporation 
 
By:        
 
Name: Gregory G. Woods 
Title: Chief 
 Light Rail Operations 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 13 of 16 
 
 
I, _______________________________, a representative of the Permittee, hereby 
certifies that I have the full power and authority to enter into, deliver, and bind the Permittee 
to the duties and responsibilities of this Permit upon the terms and conditions as set forth 
herein. 
 
 
 
 
Permittee:       _____ 
         (Signed) 
 
Name:        
     
Title:        
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A 
 
Property included within the Permit 
 
 
      
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 14 of 16 
 
 
Exhibit B 
 
Permittee’s Scope of Work and Plans 
 
The attached document, consisting of ___ page, details the proposed Work, which will 
be performed at the location(s) detailed in Exhibit A: 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 15 of 16 
 
 
Exhibit C 
 
Certificates of Insurance 
 
The certificates of insurance applicable to this Permit are attached hereto. 
 
      
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

NJ Transit  Hudson - Bergen Light Rail Transit System 
  Temporary Access Permit No. _____  
 
HBLR Temp Access V4.8 – November 2021 Page 16 of 16 
 
 
Exhibit D 
 
Notification of Work Completion 
 
Chief 
Light Rail & Contract Services 
NJ Transit Corp. 
One Penn Plaza East 
Newark, NJ  07105-2246 
 
Re:  Temporary Access Permit No. ____________ 
 
Please be advised that as of _____________________ all Work to be performed under 
the Temporary Access Permit has been completed. 
 
 
Permittee: ________________________ 
 
 
By: _______________________________ [Legally Authorized Representative] 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 1
NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION Transmittal Date: September 8, 2023 
TEMPORARY PERMIT TO ENTER UPON PROPERTY File:    ___ 
C.E.-17 (REVISED 9/01/21) Internal Order: ___ 
 WBS Element: ___ 
 Reference: ___  
 
1. TEMPORARY PERMISSION.  Temporary permission is hereby granted to:  
 
___ 
 
(hereinafter called "Permittee") to enter property owned and/or controlled by National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation (hereinafter called "Railroad") for the purpose of __ , under the terms and conditions set forth 
below. 
 
o Permittee is required to pay the $1,500.00 Temporary Permit preparation fee. 
 
o If Railroad approves the use of its Blanket Railroad Protective Liability Insurance (RRPLI) 
Program, Permittee shall include the $__.00 RRPLI premium.  
 
o Permittee is required to pay in advance Railroad’s Force Account costs as detailed in the attached 
Force Account Estimate. 
 
o Railroad shall be paid a management fee equal to ten percent of the total estimated cost.  This 
nonrefundable fee will be assessed in the first invoice. 
 
o The work described herein may not commence until Railroad has provided written approval of 
the project plans. 
 
2. LOCATION AND ACCESS.  (Give map reference, description or both – include city and state) 
 
MP __ , __ , __ 
 
(hereinafter called "Property"). 
 
3. INDEMNIFICATION.   Permittee hereby releases and agrees to defend, indemnify and hold 
harmless Railroad, as well as its officers, directors, employees, agents, successors, assigns and subsidiaries 
(collectively the “Indemnified Parties”), irrespective of negligence or fault on the part of the Indemnified 
Parties, from and against any and all losses and liabilities, penalties, fines, demands, claims, causes of 
action, suits, and costs (including cost of defense and attorneys’ fees), which any of the Indemnified Parties 
may hereafter incur, be responsible for, or pay as a result of either or both of the following:  
A. injury, death, or disease of any person, and/or   
B. damage (including environmental contamination and loss of use) to or loss of any property, 
including property of Railroad  
arising out of or in any degree directly or indirectly caused by or resulting from activities of or work 
performed by Railroad and/or Permittee (as well as Permittee’s employees, agents, contractors, 
subcontractors, or any other person acting for or by permission of Permittee) in connection with this 
Temporary Permit.  The foregoing obligation shall not be limited by the existence of any insurance policy 
or by any limitation on the amount or type of damages, compensation, or benefits payable by or for 
Permittee or any contractor or subcontractor and shall survive the termination or expiration of this 
Temporary Permit for any reason.   
 
As used in this section, the term “Railroad” also includes all commuter agencies and other railroads with 
rights to operate over Railroad property, and their respective officers, directors, employees, agents, 
successors, assigns and subsidiaries. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 2
 
[4. COMPENSATION FOR PREPARATION OF TEMPORARY PERMIT.  Permittee will pay to 
Railroad the Temporary Permit preparation fee outlined in section 1 as compensation for the preparation of 
this Temporary Permit.  This fee is to be paid upon Permittee’s execution of this Temporary Permit.] 
 
[4. CONSIDERATION FOR PREPARATION OF TEMPORARY PERMIT.  Permittee will pay to 
Railroad the sum of One Dollar ($1.00), the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, as compensation 
for the preparation of this Temporary Permit.] 
 
5. STARTING OF USE OF PROPERTY.  Permittee shall notify Railroad's Deputy Chief Engineer-
Construction, or his/her designee, in writing, at least fifteen (15) working days before it desires to enter 
upon the Property.  No entry upon the Property will be permitted until this Temporary Permit has been fully 
executed and specific written permission to enter upon the Property has been received by Permittee via 
electronic mail from Railroad’s Engineering – I&C Department. 
 
6. PERMITTEE ACTIVITIES.  All activities performed by or on behalf of Permittee shall be 
performed so as not to interfere with Railroad's operations or facilities.  In no event shall personnel, 
equipment or material cross a track(s) without special advance permission from Railroad's Deputy Chief 
Engineer-Construction or his/her designee.  If, in the opinion of Railroad's Deputy Chief Engineer-
Construction or his/her designee, conditions warrant at any time, Railroad will provide flagging and/or 
other protection services at the sole cost and expense of Permittee.  
 
7. CLEARANCES.  All equipment and material of Permittee shall be kept away from the tracks by 
the distances set forth in Attachment A hereof, unless specifically otherwise authorized in writing by 
Railroad's Deputy Chief Engineer-Construction or his/her designee.  Permittee shall conduct all operations 
so that no part of any equipment or material can foul: an operating track; transmission, communication or 
signal line; or any other structure or facility of Railroad. 
 
8. RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.  Upon completion of its work, Permittee shall, at the option of 
Railroad, leave the Property in a condition satisfactory to Railroad or restore the Property to its original 
condition.  This may include the restoration of any fences removed or damaged by Permittee.  
 
9. TERM OF TEMPORARY PERMIT.  The term shall commence on the date Railroad executes this 
Temporary Permit (“Execution Date”). Railroad will not execute this Temporary Permit until Railroad has 
received: payment of any fees/costs identified in section 1 hereof, payment of the fee set forth in section 4 
hereof, and satisfactory evidence of the insurance required pursuant to section 11 hereof. The term shall 
extend until the end of the period Railroad determines is necessary for Permittee to accomplish the purpose 
set forth in section 1 hereof; provided, however, Railroad reserves the right to revoke this Temporary Permit 
at any time for any reason, and in no event shall this Temporary Permit extend beyond the Expiration Date.  
Under no circumstances shall this Temporary Permit be construed as granting to Permittee any right, title 
or interest of any kind in any property of Railroad. 
 
10. SAFETY AND PROTECTION.  All work on, over, under, within or adjacent to the Property shall 
be performed in accordance with the document entitled "SPECIFICATIONS REGARDING SAFETY 
AND PROTECTION OF RAILROAD TRAFFIC AND PROPERTY," a copy of which is attached hereto 
as Attachment A and incorporated herein.  Failure to comply with Railroad’s safety requirements and 
Attachment A shall, at Railroad’s option, result in immediate termination of this Temporary Permit, denial 
of future Temporary Permit requests by Permittee, and forfeiture of all funds paid to Railroad. 
 
11. INSURANCE.  Before Permittee commences any work on, over, under, within or adjacent to the 
Property, Permittee and its contractors (unless Permittee opts to provide the required coverage for them), 
shall furnish to Railroad’s Senior Manager Engineering, evidence of the insurance coverages specified in 
the document entitled "INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS - NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER 
CORPORATION,” a copy of which is attached hereto as Attachment B and incorporated herein. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 3
 
12. SAFETY TRAINING CLASS.  No person may enter upon Railroad property or within twenty-five 
(25) feet of the centerline of any track or energized wire until he/she has successfully completed Railroad’s 
contractor orientation computer-based safety training class, as noted in section 12 of Attachment A. 
 
13. COMPLIANCE BY CONTRACTORS.  Permittee shall take all steps necessary to ensure that its 
contractors and subcontractors comply with the terms and conditions of this Temporary Permit. 
 
14. REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS; PAYMENTS.  Railroad shall not be responsible for any costs 
incurred by Permittee in relation to any matter whatsoever.  Permittee is required to reimburse Railroad for 
all costs incurred by Railroad in relation to this Temporary Permit.  Without limiting the foregoing, 
Permittee is required to reimburse Railroad for all costs incurred by Railroad in performing flagging and 
other protective services and in reviewing any plans, drawings or other submissions.  
 
Railroad's costs, expenses and labor charges will be billed to Permittee at Railroad's then-current standard 
force account rates.   Permittee understands that Railroad employees working under expired collective 
bargaining agreements may receive future, retroactive hourly wage increases for their work performed in 
support of Permittee’s activities under this Temporary Permit.  Upon payment to the applicable employees 
of retroactive hourly wage increases (and regardless of whether such payment is made during or after the 
term of this Temporary Permit), Railroad will invoice Permittee for, and Permittee will pay, the retroactive 
hourly wage increases, including the applicable overhead additives and benefit costs associated with the 
support services performed by Railroad. 
 
Except as specified in section 4 hereof, all payments due from Permittee to Railroad under this Temporary 
Permit shall be due and payable within thirty (30) days from the date of invoice.  Permittee shall have no 
right to set off against any payment due under this Temporary Permit any sums which Permittee may believe 
are due to it from Railroad for any reason whatsoever.  In the event that Permittee shall fail to pay, when 
due, any amount payable by it under this Temporary Permit, Permittee shall also pay to Railroad, together 
with such overdue payment, interest on the overdue amount at a rate of one and one-half percent (1.5%) 
per month or the highest rate allowed by law, if less than the foregoing, calculated from the date the payment 
was due until paid.   Railroad also has the right to suspend its support services, without penalty, until 
Permittee has paid all past due amounts with accrued interest. All payments due from Permittee to Railroad 
hereunder shall be: (a) made by check drawn from currently available funds; (b) made payable to National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation; and (c) delivered to the address indicated on the invoice. (However, the 
permit fee referenced in section 4 hereof and the Railroad Protective Liability premium referenced in 
Attachment B, if applicable, shall be delivered to Railroad at the address set forth in section 4 hereof.)  All 
payment obligations of Permittee under this Temporary Permit shall survive the termination or expiration 
of this Temporary Permit for any reason. 
 
15. ENVIRONMENTAL AND GEOTECHNICAL TESTS AND STUDIES. Permittee shall not 
perform any environmental or geotechnical tests or studies (e.g., air, soil or water sampling) unless 
specifically identified and authorized in section 1 hereof.  If any such tests or studies are performed, 
Permittee shall promptly furnish to Railroad, at no cost, a copy of the results including any reports or 
analyses obtained or compiled.  Except as may be required by applicable law or as authorized by Railroad 
in writing, Permittee shall not disclose the results of any such tests or studies to anyone other than Railroad 
or Permittee’s client.  Failure to comply with the provisions of this clause shall, at Railroad’s option, result 
in immediate termination of this Temporary Permit, forfeiture of all compensation paid Railroad therefor, 
and pursuance of any other remedies (at law or in equity) that may be available to Railroad.  The obligations 
of Permittee under this section shall survive the termination or expiration of this Temporary Permit for any 
reason. 
 
16. SEVERABILITY.  If any provision of this Temporary Permit is found to be unlawful, invalid or 
unenforceable, that provision shall be deemed deleted without prejudice to the lawfulness, validity and 
enforceability of the remainder of the Temporary Permit. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 4
 
17. GOVERNING LAW.  This Temporary Permit shall be governed by and construed under the laws 
of the District of Columbia and pursuant to 49 USC 28103(b) which precludes and preempts any other 
federal or state laws. All legal proceedings in connection with any dispute arising under or relating to this 
Temporary Permit shall be brought in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia. 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 5
*AGREED TO AND ACCEPTED BY PERMITTEE: 
___ 
 
By: ___________________________________                                                              
 (signature) 
 
Title: ___________________________________                                                             
 Must be an Owner/Partner or duly authorized representative 
 
Date: ___________________________________                                                             
  
* By signing this Temporary Permit, Permittee certifies that this document has not been altered in any manner from 
the original version as submitted by Railroad. 
 
 
 
NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION 
 
 
By: _______________________________________                                                             
VP Engineering Services 
 
 
Date: _______________________________________                                                             
 Execution Date 
 
 
Expiration Date: (For Amtrak Use Only) 
 
☐ 1 year from Execution Date 
 
☐ Project Completion 
 
☐ Other:  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 6
ATTACHMENT A 
Temporary Permit to Enter Upon Property 
 
SPECIFICATIONS REGARDING SAFETY 
AND PROTECTION OF RAILROAD TRAFFIC AND PROPERTY (Revised 9/21/18) 
 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
 
In the following Specifications, “Temporary Permit” means Railroad’s “Temporary Permit to Enter Upon 
Property”; "Railroad" means National Railroad Passenger Corporation;  “Chief Engineer" means Railroad's 
Chief Engineer or his/her duly authorized representative; “Permittee” means the party so identified in the 
Temporary Permit; and “Contractor” means the entity retained by the Permittee or the entity with whom 
Railroad has contracted in a Preliminary Engineering Agreement, Design Phase Agreement, Construction 
Phase Agreement, Force Account Agreement, License Agreement or other such agreement, as applicable. 
Reference to “Permittee/Contractor” includes both the Permittee and the Contractor. 
 
(1) Pre-Entry Meeting:  Before entry of Permittee/Contractor onto Railroad's property, a pre-entry 
meeting shall be held at which time Permittee/Contractor shall submit, for written approval of the Chief 
Engineer, plans, computations, a site-specific safety work plan and site-specific work plans that include a 
detailed description of proposed methods for accomplishing the work and protecting railroad traffic in 
accordance with Amtrak Engineering Practices EP 3014.  Any such written approval shall not relieve 
Permittee/Contractor of its complete responsibility for the adequacy and safety of its operations. 
 
(2) Rules, Regulations and Requirements:  Railroad traffic shall be maintained at all times with safety, 
security and continuity, and Permittee/Contractor shall conduct its operations in compliance with all rules, 
regulations, and requirements of Railroad (including these Specifications) with respect to any work 
performed on, over, under, within or adjacent to Railroad’s property.  Permittee/Contractor shall be 
responsible for acquainting itself with such rules, regulations and requirements.  Any violation of such 
rules, regulations, or requirements shall be grounds for the termination of the Temporary Permit and/or the 
immediate suspension of Permittee/Contractor work, and the re-training of all personnel, at 
Permittee’s/Contractor’s expense.   
 
(3) Maintenance of Safe Conditions:  If tracks or other property of Railroad are endangered during the 
work, Permittee/Contractor shall immediately notify Railroad and take such steps as may be directed by 
Railroad to restore safe conditions, and upon failure of Permittee/Contractor to immediately carry out such 
direction, Railroad may take whatever steps are reasonably necessary to restore safe conditions.  All costs 
and expenses of restoring safe conditions, and of repairing any damage to Railroad’s trains, tracks, 
right-of-way or other property caused by the operations of Permittee/Contractor, shall be paid by 
Permittee/Contractor.  Any work (or equipment being staged onsite during the work) performed at or near 
a railroad crossing must not obstruct the view of flashing light units or gates to oncoming traffic.  
 
(4) Protection in General:   Permittee/Contractor shall consult with the Chief Engineer to determine 
the type and extent of protection required to ensure safety and continuity of railroad traffic.  Any inspectors, 
track foremen, track watchmen, flagmen, signalmen, electric traction linemen, or other employees deemed 
necessary by Railroad, at its sole discretion, for protective services shall be obtained from Railroad by 
Permittee/Contractor.  The cost of same shall be paid directly to Railroad by Permittee/Contractor.  The 
provision of such employees by Railroad, and any other precautionary measures taken by Railroad, shall 
not relieve Permittee/Contractor from its complete responsibility for the adequacy and safety of its 
operations. 
 
(5) Protection for Work Near Electrified Track or Wire:  Whenever work is performed in the vicinity 
of electrified tracks and/or high voltage wires, particular care must be exercised, and Railroad’s 
requirements regarding clearance to be maintained between equipment and tracks and/or energized wires, 
and otherwise regarding work in the vicinity thereof must be strictly observed.  No employees or equipment 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 7
will be permitted to work near overhead wires, except when protected by a Class A employee of Railroad.  
Permittee/Contractor must supply an adequate length of grounding cable (4/0 copper with approved clamps) 
for each piece of equipment working near or adjacent to any overhead wire. 
 
(6) Fouling of Track or Wire:  No work will be permitted within twenty-five (25) feet of the centerline 
of a track or energized wire or that has the potential of getting within twenty-five (25) feet of such track or 
wire without the approval of the Chief Engineer.   Permittee/Contractor shall conduct its work so that no 
part of any equipment or material shall foul an active track or overhead wire without the written permission 
of the Chief Engineer.  When Permittee/Contractor desires to foul an active track or overhead wire, it must 
provide the Chief Engineer with its site-specific work plan a minimum of twenty-one (21) working days in 
advance, so that, if approved, arrangements may be made for proper protection of the railroad.  Any 
equipment shall be considered to be fouling a track or overhead wire when located (a) within fifteen (15) 
feet from the centerline of the track or within fifteen (15) feet from the wire, or (b) in such a position that 
failure of same, with or without a load, would bring it within such distance in (a) above and shall require 
the presence of the proper Railroad protection personnel. 
 
If acceptable to the Chief Engineer, a safety barrier (approved temporary fence or barricade) may be 
installed at fifteen (15) feet from centerline of track or overhead wire to afford Permittee/Contractor with a 
work area that is not considered fouling.  Nevertheless, protection personnel may be required at the 
discretion of the Chief Engineer. 
 
(7) Track Outages:  Permittee/Contractor shall verify the time and schedule of track outages from 
Railroad before scheduling any of its work on, over, under, within, or adjacent to Railroad’s right-of-way.  
Railroad does not guarantee the availability of any track outage at any particular time.   Permittee/ 
Contractor shall schedule all work to be performed in such a manner as not to interfere with Railroad 
operations.   Permittee/Contractor shall use all necessary care and precaution to avoid accidents, delay or 
interference with Railroad’s trains or other property. 
 
(8)  Demolition:  During any demolition, Permittee/Contractor must provide horizontal and vertical 
shields, designed by a professional engineer registered in the state in which the work takes place.  These 
shields shall be designed in accordance with Railroad's specifications and approved by Railroad, so as to 
prevent any debris from falling onto Railroad's right-of-way or other property.  A grounded temporary 
vertical protective barrier must be provided if an existing vertical protective barrier is removed during 
demolition.  In addition, if any openings are left in an existing bridge deck, a protective fence must be 
erected at both ends of the bridge to prohibit unauthorized persons from entering onto the bridge. 
Ballasted track structure must be kept free of all construction and demolition debris.   
 
(9) Equipment Condition and Location:  All equipment to be used in the vicinity of operating tracks 
shall be in “certified” first-class condition so as to prevent failures that might cause delay to trains or damage 
to Railroad’s property.  No equipment shall be placed or put into operation near or adjacent to operating 
tracks without first obtaining permission from the Chief Engineer.  Under no circumstances shall any 
equipment be placed or put into operation within twenty-five (25) feet from the centerline of an outside 
track, except as approved by Railroad in accordance with Permittee’s/Contractor’s site-specific safety work 
plan.  To ensure compliance with this requirement, Permittee/Contractor must establish a twenty-five (25) 
foot foul line prior to the start of work by either driving stakes, taping off or erecting a temporary fence, or 
providing an alternate method as approved by the Chief Engineer.  Permittee/Contractor will be issued 
warning stickers which must be placed in the operating cabs of all equipment as a constant reminder of the 
twenty-five (25) foot clearance envelope. 
 
If work to be performed on Railroad property involves heavy trucks, equipment, or machinery along the 
right-of-way, duct lines and pull boxes shall be inspected by on-site Railroad personnel and the equipment 
operator to ensure they can withstand the weight. 
 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 8
(10) Storage of Materials and Equipment:  No material or equipment shall be stored on Railroad’s 
property without first having obtained permission from the Chief Engineer.  Any such storage will be on 
the condition that Railroad will not be liable for loss of or damage to such materials or equipment from any 
cause. 
 
If permission is granted for the storage of compressed gas cylinders on Railroad property, they shall be 
stored a minimum of twenty-five (25) feet from the nearest track in an approved lockable enclosure.  The 
enclosure shall be locked when Permittee/Contractor is not on the project site.  
 
(11) Condition of Railroad’s Property:  Permittee/Contractor shall keep Railroad’s property clear of all 
refuse and debris from its operations.  Upon completion of the work, Permittee/Contractor shall remove 
from Railroad’s property all machinery, equipment, surplus materials, falsework, rubbish, temporary 
structures, and other property of Permittee/Contractor and shall leave Railroad’s property in a condition 
satisfactory to the Chief Engineer.  
 
(12) Safety Training:  All individuals, including representatives and employees of Permittee/ 
Contractor, before entering onto Railroad’s property and before coming within twenty-five (25) feet of the 
centerline of a track or overhead wire, must first complete Railroad’s contractor orientation computer-based 
safety training class.  The class is provided electronically at www.amtrakcontractor.com.  Upon successful 
completion of the class and test, the individual taking the class will receive a temporary certificate without 
a photo that is valid for fourteen (14) days.  The individual must upload a photo of himself/herself that will 
be embedded in the permanent ID card.  The photo ID will be mailed to the individual’s home address and 
must be worn/displayed while on Railroad property.  Training is valid for one calendar year.   All costs of 
complying with Railroad’s safety training shall be at the sole expense of Permittee/Contractor.  
Permittee/Contractor shall appoint a qualified person as its Safety Representative.  The Safety 
Representative shall continuously ensure that all individuals comply with Railroad’s safety requirements.  
All safety training records must be maintained with Permittee’s/Contractor’s site-specific work plan. 
 
(13) No Charges to Railroad:  It is expressly understood that neither these Specifications, nor any 
document to which they are attached, include any work for which Railroad is to be billed by 
Permittee/Contractor, unless Railroad makes a specific written request that such work be performed at 
Railroad's expense. 
 
(14) Utilities:  All underground utilities, cables, and facilities must be located and protected before any 
excavating, drilling of any kind, boring, ground penetrating activities, or construction activities take place. 
This includes, but is not limited to, Railroad and commercial utilities, cables, duct lines, and facilities. The 
“call before you dig” process must be followed.  Railroad is not part of that process; therefore, 
Permittee/Contractor must contact Railroad’s Engineering Department to have Railroad’s underground 
utilities and assets located. If requested by Railroad, existing depths of any utilities being crossed must be 
verified through test pits performed by Permittee/Contractor as directed by and under the direct supervision 
of Railroad personnel.  Hand digging may be required, as directed by Railroad’s on-site support personnel. 
No activities may be performed in close proximity to Railroad duct bank or communication facilities unless 
monitored by on-site Railroad personnel.  Railroad maintains the right to access its existing cables and 
conduits throughout construction and reserves the right to upgrade and install new cables and conduits in 
the affected area. Precautions must be taken by Permittee/Contractor to prevent any interruption to 
Railroad’s operations. 
 
 
 
  
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 9
ATTACHMENT B 
INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS  
NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION (AMTRAK) 
Revised as of September 1, 2021 
 
DEFINITIONS 
 
In these Insurance Requirements, "Railroad" or "Amtrak" shall mean National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation and, as appropriate, its subsidiary, Washington Terminal Company (“WTC”).  "Contractor" 
shall mean the party identified as "Permittee" in the Temporary Permit to Enter Upon Property or the party 
with whom Amtrak has contracted in another agreement (e.g., Preliminary Engineering Agreement, Design 
and/or Construction Phase Agreement, Force Account Agreement, License Agreement), as well as its 
officers, employees, agents, servants, contractors, subcontractors, or any other person acting for or by 
permission of Contractor.  "Operations" shall mean activities of or work performed by Contractor.  
“Agreement” shall mean the Temporary Permit to Enter Upon Property or other such agreement, as 
applicable. 
 
INSURANCE 
 
Contractor shall procure and maintain, at its sole cost, the types of insurance specified below:    
 
1. Workers' Compensation Insurance complying with the requirements of the statutes of the 
jurisdiction(s) in which the Operations will be performed, covering all employees of Contractor.  
Employer's Liability coverage shall have the following minimum limits of coverage:   
 
$1,000,000  Each Accident 
$1,000,000 Disease Policy Limit 
$1,000,000 Disease Each Employee 
 
In the event the Operations are to be performed on, over, or adjacent to navigable waterways, a 
U.S. Longshoremen and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act Endorsement and an Outer 
Continental Lands Act Endorsement are required.  
 
2. Commercial General Liability (CGL) Insurance covering liability of Contractor with respect to 
all operations to be performed and all obligations assumed by Contractor under the terms of the 
Agreement.  Products-completed operations, independent contractors and contractual liability 
coverages are to be included, with the contractual exclusion related to construction/demolition 
activity within fifty (50) feet of the railroad deleted and with no exclusions for Explosion/Collapse/ 
Underground (X-C-U).   Coverage shall include bodily injury (including disease or death), personal 
injury and property damage (including loss of use) liability.  
 
This policy shall have the following minimum limits of coverage: 
 
$2,000,000 Each Occurrence  
$2,000,000 Annual Policy Aggregate  
$2,000,000 Products and Completed Operations 
 
In addition, the following shall apply:  
 
A. The policy shall name National Railroad Passenger Corporation (and, as appropriate, WTC) 
and all commuter agencies and railroads that operate over the property or tracks at issue as 
additional insureds with respect to the operations to be performed. 
B. The policy shall include an ISO endorsement Form CG 24 17 10 01 or its equivalent providing 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 10 
contractual liability coverage for railroads listed as additional insureds. 
C. Coverage for such additional insureds shall be primary and non-contributory with respect to 
any other insurance the additional insureds may carry. 
D. Such coverage may be provided by a combination of a primary CGL policy and a following 
form excess or umbrella liability policy. 
 
3. Automobile Liability Insurance covering the liability of Contractor arising out of the use of any 
vehicles which bear, or are required to bear, license plates according to the laws of the jurisdiction 
in which they are to be operated, and which are not covered under Contractor's CGL insurance.  
The policy shall have the following minimum limits of coverage: 
 
$1,000,000  Each Occurrence, Combined Single Limit 
 
In addition, the following shall apply:  
 
A. The policy shall name National Railroad Passenger Corporation (and, as appropriate, WTC) 
and all commuter agencies and railroads that operate over the property or tracks at issue as 
additional insureds with respect to the operations to be performed.   
B. Coverage shall include bodily injury (including disease or death), personal injury and property 
damage (including loss of use) liability and cover damages resulted from loading and unloading 
activities. 
C. In the event Contractor will be transporting and/or disposing of any hazardous material or waste 
off of the jobsite, a MCS-90 Endorsement is to be added to this policy and the limits of liability 
are to be increased to $5 million each occurrence. 
 
4. Railroad Protective (RRP) Liability Insurance covering the Operations performed by Contractor 
within fifty (50) feet vertically or horizontally of railroad tracks.  The policy shall be written on a 
current ISO Occurrence Form (claims-made forms are unacceptable) in the name of National 
Railroad Passenger Corporation (and, as appropriate WTC) and all commuter agencies and 
railroads that operate over the property or tracks at issue). The policy shall have the following 
minimum limits of coverage:  
 
$2,000,000 Each Occurrence 
$6,000,000  Policy Aggregate 
  
In addition, the following shall apply:  
 
A. The policy shall have coverage for losses arising out of injury to or death of all persons, and 
for physical loss or damage to or destruction of property, including the loss of use thereof.   
B. Policy Endorsement CG 28 31 - Pollution Exclusion Amendment is required to be endorsed 
onto the policy.    
C. "Physical Damage to Property" as defined in the policy is to be deleted and replaced by the 
following endorsement: 
 
"It is agreed that ‘Physical Damage to Property’ means direct and accidental loss of or damage 
to all property owned by any named insured and all property in any named insured’s care, 
custody and control.” 
 
D. In the alternative, and upon Amtrak’s approval, Contractor may elect to have Amtrak insure 
the Operations under its Blanket RRP Liability Insurance Program.  The premium, which shall 
be determined by the rate schedule promulgated by the insurer in effect as of the effective date 
of the Agreement, shall be prepaid by Contractor.  In the event Contractor and Amtrak agree 
to insure the Operations under Amtrak’s RRP Program, Contractor shall include the RRP 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 11 
premium outlined in section 1, and send its payment prior to commencement of Operations. 
 
5. All Risk Property Insurance  covering damage to or loss of all personal property of Contractor 
used during Operations including, but not limited to, tools, equipment, construction trailers and 
their contents and temporary scaffolding at the project site, whether owned, leased, rented or 
borrowed for the full replacement cost value.  Such insurance policies shall include a waiver of 
subrogation and any other rights of recovery in favor of Amtrak. 
 
6. Contractor’s Pollution Liability Insurance covering the liability of Contractor arising out of any 
sudden and/or non-sudden pollution or impairment of the environment, including clean-up costs and 
defense, which arise from the Operations of Contractor.  The policy shall have the following minimum 
limits of coverage:  
 
$2,000,000 Each Occurrence 
$2,000,000 Annual  Policy Aggregate 
 
In addition, the following shall apply:  
 
A. The policy shall name National Railroad Passenger Corporation (and, as appropriate, WTC) and 
all commuter agencies and railroads that operate over the property or tracks at issue as 
additional insureds. 
B. The coverage shall be maintained during the term of the Operations and for at least two (2) years 
following completion thereof. 
 
7. Pollution Legal Liability Insurance is required if any hazardous material or waste is to be transported 
or disposed of off of the jobsite.  Contractor or its transporter, as well as the disposal site operator, shall 
maintain this insurance.  The policy shall have the following minimum limits of coverage:  
 
$2,000,000 Each Occurrence 
$2,000,000 Annual Policy Aggregate  
 
In addition, the following shall apply:  
 
A. Contractor shall designate the disposal site and provide a certificate of insurance from the disposal 
facility to Amtrak.   
B. The policy shall name National Railroad Passenger Corporation (and, as appropriate, WTC) and 
all commuter agencies and railroads that operate over the property or tracks at issue as 
additional insureds. 
C. Any additional insurance coverages, permits, licenses and other forms of documentation 
required by the United States Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection 
Agency and/or related state and local laws, rules and regulations shall be obtained by 
Contractor.   
 
8. Professional Liability Insurance covering the liability of Contractor for any errors or omissions 
committed by Contractor providing professional design or engineering services in the performance 
of the Operations, regardless of the type of damages.  The policy shall have the following minimum 
levels of coverage: 
 
$2,000,000 Per Claim 
$2,000,000 Annual Policy Aggregate  
 
In addition, the following shall apply:  
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 12 
A. The coverage shall be maintained during the Operations and for at least three (3) years 
following completion thereof. 
B. The policy shall have a retroactive date that coincides with or precedes any design work on the 
project. 
C. If Contractor is not performing professional design or engineering services, Contractor may 
elect to satisfy this requirement through the addition of endorsement CG2279 “Incidental 
Professional Liability” to its CGL policy. 
 
MISCELLANEOUS 
 
1. General     
 
A. All insurance shall be procured from insurers authorized to do business in the jurisdiction(s) 
where the Operations are to be performed. 
B. Contractor shall require all subcontractors to carry the insurance required herein or Contractor 
may, at its option, provide the coverage for any or all subcontractors, provided the evidence of 
insurance submitted by Contractor to Amtrak so stipulates. 
C. The insurance shall provide for thirty (30) days prior written notice to Amtrak in the event 
coverage is substantially changed, canceled or non-renewed.   
D. Unless noted otherwise herein, all insurance shall remain in force until all Operations are 
satisfactorily completed, all Contractor personnel and equipment have been removed from 
Railroad property, and any work has been formally accepted. 
E. Contractor may provide for the insurance coverages with such deductible or retained amount 
as Amtrak may approve from time to time, except, however, that Contractor shall, at its sole 
cost, pay for all claims and damages which fall within such deductible or retained amount on 
the same basis as if there were full commercial insurance in force. 
F. Contractor's failure to comply with the insurance requirements set forth in these Insurance 
Requirements shall constitute a violation of the Agreement. 
 
2. Waiver of Subrogation   As to all insurance policies required herein, Contractor waives all rights 
of recovery, and its insurers must waive all rights of subrogation of damages against Amtrak (and, 
as appropriate, WTC) and their agents, officers, directors, and employees.  The waiver must be 
stated on the certificates of insurance. 
 
3. Punitive Damages   Unless prohibited by law, no liability insurance policies required herein shall 
contain an exclusion for punitive or exemplary damages. 
 
4. Claims-Made Insurance  If any liability insurance specified herein shall be provided on a claims-
made basis then, in addition to coverage requirements above, the following shall apply: 
 
A. The retroactive date shall coincide with or precede Contractor’s start of Operations (including 
subsequent policies purchased as renewals or replacements); 
B. The policy shall allow for the reporting of circumstances or incidents that might give rise to 
future claims; 
C. Contractor shall maintain similar insurance under the same terms and conditions that describe 
each type of policy listed above (e.g., CGL, Professional Liability, Pollution Legal Liability) 
for at least three (3) years following completion of Operations; and 
D. If insurance is terminated for any reason and not replaced with insurance meeting the 
requirements herein, Contractor shall purchase an extended reporting provision of at least four 
(4) years to report claims arising from Operations. 
 
5. Evidence of Insurance   
 
A. Contractor shall submit to Amtrak the original RRP Liability Insurance Policy and certificates 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 13 
of insurance evidencing the other required insurance.  In addition, Contractor agrees to provide 
certified copies of the insurance policies for the required insurance within thirty (30) days of 
Amtrak’s written request.   
B. Contractor shall furnish evidence of insurance as specified herein at least fifteen (15) days prior 
to commencing Operations.  The fifteen (15) day requirement may be waived by Amtrak in 
situations where such waiver will benefit Amtrak, but under no circumstances will Contractor 
begin Operations without providing satisfactory evidence of insurance as approved by Amtrak.   
C. Prior to the cancellation, renewal, or expiration of any insurance policy specified above, 
Contractor shall furnish evidence of insurance replacing the cancelled or expired policies.   
D. ALL INSURANCE DOCUMENTS SHALL INCLUDE A DESCRIPTION OF THE 
PROJECT AND THE LOCATION ALONG THE RAILROAD RIGHT-OF-WAY (typically 
given by milepost designation) IN ORDER TO FACILITATE PROCESSING.   
E.    Evidence of insurance coverage shall be sent to: 
 
Senior Manager Engineering 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation                 
30th Street Station, Mailbox 64 
                          2955 Market Street 
                          Philadelphia, PA  19104-2817 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

      
   
1 
 
#0923-05: HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT - HUDSON RIVER GROUND STABILIZATION PROJECT – 
AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE LABOR AGREEMENTS  
The Hudson Tunnel Project will improve resiliency, reliability, and redundancy for the busiest 
section of the Northeast Corridor (“NEC”) – the busiest passenger rail line in the United States. The Hudson 
Tunnel Project (“HTP”), for funding and financing pu rposes, includes the construction of a new Hudson 
River Tunnel between New York and New Jersey, and the rehabilitation of the existing 112-year-old North 
River Tunnel under the Hudson River.  
The Hudson River Ground Stabilization Project (“HRGS”) is an ear ly works project part of the 
Hudson Tunnel Project.  HRGS involves ground improvement in the Hudson River to strengthen the 
riverbed to facilitate future Hudson River Tunnel design and construction requirements.   
The Gateway Development Commission (the “C ommission”) is a public and government 
sponsored authority established by bi -state legislation (the “GDC Act”) in July 2019. The Commission is 
serving as the NEPA Project Sponsor and federal grant recipient for the Hudson Tunnel Project.  
The GDC Act empow ers the Commission to “enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out any 
power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose wh ich the 
commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with the federal 
government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New York, with any local 
government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, commission or authority of any one 
or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, 
or with any one or more of them.” 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e).  
The GDC Act further empowers the Commission to “ utilize the existing labor force in the states 
and foster labor harmony in allowing for adoption of efficient labor work rules and practices during 
construction of the Project.” 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 7(q); N.J.S.A. § 32:36-8(q).  
A project labor agreement is a pre-hire collective bargaining agreement that establishes the terms 
and conditions of employment for a project.   
 The Project Development Agreement for the Hudson Tunnel Project (the “PDA”), a foundational 
agreement between the States of New Jersey and New York, Amtrak, and the Commission regarding 
delivery of the Hudson Tunnel Project, provides, at Article IV, Section 4.01(b), that the Commission shall 
“engage with labor constituencies and lead the development and negotiation of applicable project labor 
agreement(s)” for the Hudson Tunnel Project.  
 The Commission has engaged , via its outside counsel, a consultant  to conduct a study to 
determine that it is the Commission’s interest to negotiate and execute project labor agreements for 
HRGS based on considerations such as the impact of delay, the possibility of cost savings advantages, and 
the promotion of labor harmony are best met b y requiring a project labor a greement.  The labor study 
recommends that the Commission negotiate and execute project labor agreements for HRGS.  
Based on the conclusions in this study, t he Commission and the unions representing the trades 
who will perform work on HRGS (the “Parties”) have engaged in negotiations regarding the terms and 
conditions of employment for HRGS.   
Adopted - 9/11/23


=== PAGE BREAK ===

   
   
2 
 
The terms the Parties have negotiated are memorialized in the  Project Memorandum of 
Agreement between the Commission and the District Council of New York and Vicinity  of the Union 
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, Local Union No. 3 International Brotherhood of 
Electrical Workers, AFL -CIO, Local Union No. 40 of Bridge, Structural Ornamental, and Reinforcing Iron 
Workers, AFL-CIO, Building, Concrete, Excavating & Common Laborers Local No. 731, and Teamsters, Local 
Union No. 282, which is attached hereto as “Exhibit A”, and the Memorandum of Understanding between 
the Commission and the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 14-14B, AFL-CIO  and Local 15, 
15A, 15C, 15D, 15G & 15H, AFL -CIO, which is attached hereto as “Exhibit B ,” (collectively, the “Labor 
Agreements”).  
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all actions 
consistent with this resolution, and to make, execute and deliver in the name and on behalf of GDC  the 
attached copies of the Labor Agreements, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms 
and conditions of the Labor Agreements, including enforcing the terms of the Labor Agreements as may 
be required, including but not limited to , initiating arbitration procedures as specified in the Labor 
Agreements.  
  
  
Adopted - 9/11/23
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with the Commissioners
Barbas, Bauer, Coscia, Glen, Grewal-Birk, and Rosen voting in favor:

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
   
3 
 
 
EXHIBIT A 
 
PROJECT MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT 
FOR THE 
HUDSON RIVER GROUND STABILIZATION PROJECT 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN 
GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION 
AND 
THE DISTRICT COUNCIL OF NEW YORK CITY AND VICINITY OF THE UNION 
BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA, 
LOCAL UNION NO. 3 INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO, 
LOCAL UNION NO. 40 OF BRIDGE, STRUCTURAL ORNAMENTAL AND REINFORCING IRON WORKERS, AFL-
CIO, 
BUILDING, CONCRETE, EXCAVATING & COMMON LABORERS LOCAL NO. 731, and 
TEAMSTERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 282 
 
  
Adopted - 9/11/23

=== PAGE BREAK ===

1 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
 
PROJECT MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT 
FOR THE 
HUDSON RIVER GROUND STABILIZATION PROJECT 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN 
GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION  
AND 
THE DISTRICT COUNCIL OF NEW YORK CITY AND VICINITY OF THE UNION  
BR
 
O
THERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA
 
,
 
LOCAL UNION NO. 3 INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTICAL WORKERS, 
AFL-CIO, 
LOCAL UNION NO. 
 
40 OF BRIDGE, STRUCTURAL ORNAMENTAL AND 
REINFORCING IRON WORKERS, AFL-CIO, 
BUILDING, CONCRETE, EXCAVATING & COMMON LABORERS LOCAL NO. 
 
731, 
 
and
 
TEAMSTERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 282 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

1 
 
 
PROJECT MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT  
PREAMBLE  
This Memorandum of Agreement (“MOA” or “Agreement”) is entered into this ___ day 
of September, 2023 by and between the Gateway Development Commission (“GDC”) and  the 
District Council of New York and Vicinity of the Union Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America, Local Union No. 3 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL -CIO, Local 
Union N os. 40 of Bridge, Structural Ornamental, and Reinforcing Iron Workers, AFL -CIO, 
Building, Concrete, Excavating & Common Laborers Local No. 731, and Teamsters, Local Union 
No. 282 (“Unions”). 
WHEREAS, GDC is engaged in a project known as the “Hudson River Ground 
Stabilization” (also referred to as the “HRGS” or  “Project”) which is a part of a larger 
construction plan known as the Hudson Tunnel Project.  
WHEREAS, GDC desires to provide for the cost efficient, safe, quality, and timely 
completion of the Project; 
WHEREAS, this Agreement will foster the achievement of these goals, inter alia, by: 
(1) expediting the construction process and otherwise minimizing disruption to the 
Project; 
(2)  avoiding the costly delays of  labor unrest and promoting labor harmony for the 
duration of the Project; 
(2) standardizing certain terms and conditions governing the employment of labor on the 
Project; 
 
(3) providing comprehensive and standardized mechanisms for the settlement of work 
disputes, including those relating to jurisdiction; 
(4) ensuring a reliable source of skilled and experienced labor; 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2 
 
 
(6)  reducing labor costs by giving contractors flexibility to manage and perform work 
operations in the most efficient and productive manner consistent with this 
agreement;  
 
(7) maximizing Project safety conditions for both workers and others; and  
WHEREAS, the Unions and their members desire to assist GDC in meeting these 
operational needs and objectives as well as to provide for the stability, security and work 
opportunities which are afforded by this Agreement. 
NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed in consideration for the mutual promises and covenants 
made herein as follows: 
ARTICLE 1 PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT 
1. This Agreement is entered into by and among GDC and the Unions. 
2. GDC and the Unions each warrant and represent that they have been duly 
authorized to enter into this Agreement on behalf of, and to bind, their respective organizations. 
The Parties hereby agree that the recitals set forth above are incorporated herein by reference 
and made a part of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 2 CONDITIONS FOR AGREEMENT TO BECOME EFFECTIVE 
1. This Agreement shall not become effective unless each of the following conditions 
are met: (a) the Agreement is signed by GDC, and (b) the Agreement is signed by each of the Unions. 
2. No contractor working on the Project is or will be obligated to sign or otherwise 
become a party to any local,  area, national or other  agreement, including the local Collective 
Bargaining Agreements appended hereto and referred to  herein as Schedule A (see Index at 
Exhibit “3” below), except as may be required as a condition of performing work within the scope 
of this Agreement. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

3 
 
 
ARTICLE 3 SUPREMACY CLAUSE 
1. This Agreement, togethe r with the Schedule A Agreements,  represents the  
complete understanding of all parties bound by this Agreement and supersedes any national 
agreement, local agreement, or other collective bargaining agreement of any type. 
2. Schedule A Agreements are those collective bargaining agreements of the Unions 
identified in the attached Schedule A, that are appropriate for both the geographical area of the 
Project for the type of work being performed on the Project. 
3. Where a subject covered by the provisions of this Agreement is also covered by a 
Schedule A agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. Where this Agreement is 
silent on a subject, the applicable Schedule A Agreement shall govern. In interpreting this Section, 
the terms of this Agreement shall be given broad interpretation to ensure that the objectives of this 
Agreement are achieved. Any dispute arising between the Parties to this Agreement pertaining to 
this Project, including disputes as to the application and/or interpretation of this Agreement's 
Supremacy Clause and whether a Schedule A labor agreement has been superseded by this 
Agreement, shall be resolved according to the Arbitration provision set forth in this Agreement 
exclusively and not pursuant to the grievance or arbitration provisions of a Schedule A agreement. 
4. The liability of GDC and the liability of any Union under this Agreement shall be 
several and not joint. 
5. The Unions agree that this Agreement will be made available to, and will fully 
apply to, any contractor performing work for the  Project and all contractors performing Project 
Work shall be required to sign a Letter of Assent (“LOA”) attached hereto as Exhibit “1”, without 
regard to whether that contractor performs work at other sites on either a union or nonunion basis, 
and without regard to whether employees of such contractor are, or are not, members of any unions. 
Contractors shall acknowledge the application of this Agreement to this Project by executing the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

4 
 
 
Letter of Assent. This Agreement shall not apply to the work of any contractor that is performed at 
any location other than the site of Project Work. 
ARTICLE 4 WORK PRESERVATION & SUBCONTRACTING 
 After the effective date of this Agreement, GDC will not award Project work to a 
contractor and, further, contractors will not subcontract Project Work except to a person, firm or 
corporation which is or agrees to become party to this Agreement pursuant to execution of the 
Letter of Assent. 
ARTICLE 5 SCOPE OF THIS AGREEMENT 
1. This Agreement shall apply to all Project work described in Exhibit “2” (“Project 
Work”). 
2. It is understood that GDC has sole discretion at any time to eliminate, terminate, 
delay or suspend Project Work, in whole or in part, without recourse by the Unions, provided 
that if such Project Work is re -bid, re -awarded, and/or resumed it shall  be governed by this 
Agreement. Notwithstanding the above, it is agreed and understood among the Parties that 
Project Work may at any time be changed by GDC  in its sole discretion and that the definition 
of Project Work is not a representation, warranty or guarantee by GDC that GDC will refrain from 
making such changes to the current plan for the Project. There shall be no claim for wages, fund 
contributions or other recourse against GDC or a contractor for Project Work removed from the scope 
of work by GDC, provided that such action is not a subterfuge to avoid the obligations of this 
Agreement and if the work is later re-commenced, such work is covered by this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 6 PRE-HIRE RECOGNITION 
All contractors performing Project Work shall recognize the Unions as the sole and 
exclusive bargaining representatives of all craft employees the contractor employs with respect 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

5 
 
 
to Project Work performed within the scope of the Unions’ geographic and trade jurisdiction. 
This Agreement is a pre-hire collective bargaining agreement as described in Section 8(f) of the 
National Labor Relations Act (“NLRA”) and shall not be deemed to create a recognition 
relationship under Section 9(a) of the NLRA, to require bargaining for a successor agreement, to 
bind the employer to a successor agreement, or to constitute a delegation of bargaining authority 
to any association, however, this provision does not eliminate any preexisting NLRA Section 
9(a) collective bargaining relationship or bargaining rights delegation that may otherwise exist 
between a contractor and a Union. 
ARTICLE 7 UNION REFERRAL & NON-DISCRIMINATION 
1. Contractors agree to request, employ, and hire craft employees for Project Work 
through the job referral systems and hiring halls established in the Schedule A  Agreements.  
Notwithstanding this, c ontractors shall have the sole right to determine the competency of all 
referrals; to determine the number of employees required; to select employees for layoff; and the 
sole right to reject any applicant referred by a Union.  In the event that a Union does not fill any 
request for qualified employees within a 48-hour period after such request is made by a contractor 
(Saturdays, Sundays and holidays excepted), a contractor may employ qualified applicants from 
any other available source.  In the event that the Union does not have a job referral system, the 
contractor shall give the Union first preference to refer applicants, subject to the other provisions 
of this Article.  The contractor shall notify the Union of craft employees hired for Project Work 
within its jurisdiction from any source other than referral by the Union.   
2. A contractor may request by name, and the Union will honor, referral of persons 
who have applied to the Union for Project Work (“Core Employees”) and who meet the 
following qualifications: 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

6 
 
 
(i) possess any license required by New York State law for Project Work to be 
performed; 
(ii) have worked a total of at least 1000 hours in the Construction field during 
the prior 3 years; and 
(iii)  were on the contractor’s active payroll for at least 60 out of the 180 calendar 
days prior to the contract award. 
 
No more than twelve per centum (12%) of the employees covered by this Agreement, per 
contractor per craft, shall be hired through the special provisions above. Under this special 
provision, name referrals begin with the eighth employee needed and continue on that same basis. 
3. Project Work is being funded in part through the United States Department of 
Transportation (“U.S. DOT”). Regulations from the Federal Transit Administration (“FTA”) 
require that GDC, as a recipient of U.S. DOT funding, set an overall D BEs participation goal 
which has yet to be determined. GDC’s compliance with the DBEs participation goal is subject 
to auditing and monitoring by the FTA. The Unions are committed to utilize best efforts to assist 
GDC in reaching its DBEs participation goa l, once determined, for Project Work, including, 
without limitation, providing the Design Build Contractor a full list of DBE contractors that are 
a signatory to their respective Schedule A Agreements and excluding from coverage under this 
Agreement certain DBE contractors and subcontractors based on the value of their respective 
contract, such value to be determined by further negotiation between the Unions and GDC. 
4. The Unions represent that each Union hiring hall and referral system will be 
operated in a non-discriminatory manner and in full compliance with all applicable federal, state 
and local laws and regulations that require equal employment opportunities. Referrals shall not 
be affected in any way by the rules, regulations, bylaws, constitutional provisions or any other 
aspects or obligations of union membership, policies or requirements and shall be subject to such 
other conditions as are established in this Article. No employment applicant shall be 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

7 
 
 
discriminated against by any referral system or hiring hall because of the applicant's union 
membership, or lack thereof. 
ARTICLE 8 MANAGEMENT’S RIGHTS 
1. Except as expressly limited by a specific provision of this Agreement, Contractors 
retain full and exclusive authority for the management of their operations including, but not 
limited to, the right to: direct the work force, including determination as to the number of 
employees to be hired and the qualifications therefore; the promotion, transfer, layoff of its 
employees; require compliance with the directive of GDC, including standard restrictions related 
to security and access to the Project Work site th at are equally applicable to GDC, guests, or 
vendors; the discipline or discharge for just cause of its employees; assign and schedule work; 
implement a timekeeping system of their choosing; promulgate reasonable Project Work rules 
that are not inconsistent with this Agreement or rules common in the industry and are reasonably 
related to the nature of work; and, the requirement, timing and number of employees to be 
utilized for overtime work. No rules, customs, or practices which limit or restrict productivity or 
efficiency of the individual, as determined by the Contractor, GDC, and/or joint working efforts 
with other employees shall be permitted or observed. 
2. There shall be no limitation or restriction upon the Contractor’s choice of 
materials, techniques, methods, technology or design, or, regardless of source or location, upon 
the use and installation of equipment, machinery, package units, pre -cast, pre-fabricated, pre-
finished, or pre -assembled materials or products, tools, or other labor -saving devices. 
Contractors may, without restriction, install or use materials, supplies or equipment regardless 
of their source; provided, however, that where there is a Schedule A CBA that includes a lawful 
union standards and practices clauses, then such clause as set forth in the Schedule A CBA will 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

8 
 
 
be complied with, unless there is a lawful GDC specification (or specification issued by a 
Construction Manager which would be lawful if issued by the GDC directly) that would 
specifically limit or restrict the Contractor’ s choice of materials, techniques, methods, 
technology or design, or, regardless of source or location, upon the use and installation of 
equipment, machinery, package units, pre -cast, pre-fabricated, pre-finished, or pre -assembled 
materials or products, tools, or other labor-saving devices, and which would prevent compliance 
with such Schedule A CBA provision. The on-site installation or application of such items shall 
be performed by the craft having jurisdiction over such work; provided, however, it is recognized 
that other personnel having special qualifications may participate, in a supervisory capacity, in 
the installation, check -off or testing of specialized or unusual equipment or facilities as 
designated by the Contractor. There shall be no restrictions as to work which is preformed off -
site for Project Work. 
ARTICLE 9 WORK STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS 
 
SECTION 1 NO PROHIBITED ACTIVITY OR LOCKOUTS 
There shall be no strikes, sympathy strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, walkouts, 
picketing, handbilling, demonstrations or other disruptive activity of any kind (collectively, 
“Prohibited Activity”) at the Project Work site for any reason by any Union or employee against 
any contractor or employer.  There shall be no other Union or concerted or employee activity 
which disrupts or interferes with the operation of Project Work or the objectives of GDC at any 
Project Work site.  In addition, failure of any Union or employee to cross any picket line 
established by a union, signatory or non- signatory to this Agreement, or the picket or 
demonstration line of any other organization, at or in immediate proximity to a Project Work site 
where the failure to cross disrupts or interferes with the operation of Project Work is a violation 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

9 
 
 
of this Article. Should any employees breach this provision, the Unions will use their best efforts 
to try to immediately end that breach and return all employees to work.  There shall be no lockout 
at a Project Work site by GDC or an any signatory contractor. 
SECTION 2 DISCHARGE FOR VIOLATION 
A contractor may discharge any employee violating Article 9, above, and any such 
employee will not be eligible thereafter for referral under this Agreement for a period of at least 
120 days. 
SECTION 3 ARBITRATION OF DISCHARGES FOR VIOLATION 
1. Procedures contained in Article 12 shall not be applicable to any alleged violation 
of Article 9, with the single exception that an employee discharged for violation of Article 9 may 
have recourse to the procedures of Article 12 to determine only if the employee did, in fact, 
violate the provisions of Article 9, but not for the purpose of modifying the discipline imposed 
where a violation is found to have occurred. 
2. If GDC or any contractor contends that any Union or their employee has violated 
Article 9, it will notify the Union involved advising of such fact, with copies of the notification 
to the Unions and to any affected c ontractor. The Union shall instruct its members and shall 
otherwise use its best efforts to c ause the employees to immediately cease and desist from any 
violation. The Unions shall request and otherwise use their best efforts to cause employees to 
immediately cease and desist from any violation of Article 9. 
SECTION 4 EXPEDITED ARBITRATION 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

10 
 
 
 GDC or any contractor or Union alleging a violation of Article 9 may utilize the 
expedited procedure set forth below (in lieu of, or in addition to, any actions at law or equity 
that may be brought): 
a) A party invoking this procedure shall notify Martin Scheinman or Howard 
Edelman, who shall be designated by a random selection process as Arbitrator under this 
expedited arbitration procedure. If the Arbitrator next on the list is not available to hear the matter 
within 24 hours of notice, the next Arbitrator on the list shall be called. If either Mr. Scheinman 
or Mr. Edelman should become incapacitated, the affected Union and GDC shall select an arbitrator 
pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association unless otherwise agreed to by the 
affected Union and GDC. Copies of such notification will be simultaneously sent to the alleged 
violator. 
b) The Arbitrator shall thereupon, after notice as to the time and place to the 
contractor(s), the Union(s) involved, and the GDC, hold a hearing within 48 hours of receipt of 
the notice invoking the procedure if it is contended that the violation still exists. The hearing will 
not, however, be scheduled for less than 24 hours after the notice. 
c) All notices pursuant to this Article may be provided by email or confirmed 
overnight delivery, to the Arbitrator, GDC,  Union(s) and contractor(s) involved. The hearing may 
be held on any day including Saturdays or Sundays. The hearing shall be completed in one session, 
which shall not exceed 8 hours duration (not more than 4 hours being allowed to either side to 
present their case, and conduct their cross-examination) unless otherwise agreed. A failure of any 
Union or contractor to attend the hearing shall not delay the hearing of evidence by those present 
or the issuance of an award by the Arbitrator. 
d) The sole issue at the hearing shall be whether a violation of Article 9 above occurred. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

11 
 
 
If a violation is  found to  have occurred, the Arbitrator shall  issue a Cease and Desist Award 
restraining such violation and serve copies on GDC, Union(s) and c ontractor(s) involved. The 
Arbitrator shall have no authority to consider any matter in justification, explanation or mitigation of 
such violation or to award damages or modify the disciplinary action taken (any damages issue is 
reserved solely for court proceedings, if any.) The Award shall be issued in writing within 3 hours 
after the close of the hearing and may be issued without an Opinion. If any involved party desires 
an Opinion, one shall be issued within 15 calendar  days, but its issuance shall  not delay 
compliance with, or enforcement of, the Award. 
e) An Award issued under this procedure may be enforced by any court of competent 
jurisdiction upon the filing of this Agreement together with the pertinent LOA, the Award, and a 
Petition to Confirm. Notice of the filing of such enforcement proceedings shall be given to the 
signatory Union(s), GDC and/or contractor(s) involved. In any court proceeding  to obtain a 
temporary or preliminary order enforcing the Arbitrator's award, GDC, the contractor(s) involved 
and Union(s) involved waive their right to a hearing and agree that such proceedings may be ex 
parte, provided notice is given to opposing counsel. Such agreement does not waive any Party’s 
right to participate in a hearing for a final court order of enforcement, or  in any contempt  
proceeding. 
f) Any rights created by statute or law governing arbitration or injunction 
proceedings related to arbitrations enforcing this Agreement, which are inconsistent with the 
procedure set forth in this Article, or which interfere with compliance or prohibit enforcement of 
an Award under this Article, are hereby waived by GDC, contractors and Unions to whom they 
accrue. 
g) The fees and expenses of  the Arbitrator shall be equally divided between the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

12 
 
 
involved contractor(s) and Union(s). Each party is otherwise responsible for their own legal costs 
and expenses, all as determined by the Arbitrator.  
h) GDC is a party in interest in all proceedings arising under this Article and shall be 
sent contemporaneous copies of all notifications required by this Article, and, at its option, may 
participate as a full party in any proceeding initiated under this Article. 
i) If the Arbitrator determines that a violation has occurred, the respondent Union(s) 
shall, within four (4) hours of receipt of the award, direct all the employees they represent on the 
Project to immediately cease the violation. 
ARTICLE 10 GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION 
1. It is specifically agreed that in the event of any disputes arising out of the 
interpretation of this Agreement or any other labor agreement applicable to this Project (excluding 
jurisdictional claims, which shall be resolved in accordance with Article 13, and claims pertaining 
to violation of Article 9) shall be settled by means of the procedures set forth in this Article. No 
such grievance shall be recognized unless called to the attention  of the contractor by the Union 
or to the attention of the Union by the contractor within ten (10) calendar days after the alleged 
violation was committed, or within ten (10) calendar days of the first knowledge of the facts giving 
rise to the grievances. 
2. Grievances shall be settled in accordance with the following procedure  
(a) Step 1. The dispute shall be referred, in writing, to the Business Representative of the 
Union involved or their designated representative, the contractor /employer 
superintendent and/or the contractor/employer’s representative at the Project. 
(b) Step 2. In the event that the Business Representative of the involved Unions and the 
contractor/employer superintendent and/or the contractor/employer’s representative at 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

13 
 
 
the Project cannot r each agreement within five (5) calendar days after a meeting is 
arranged and held, the matter will be referred, in writing, to the Statewide Union 
Representative and the Labor Relations Representative of the responsible 
contractor/employer. 
(c) Step 3. In the event that the Statewide Union Representative and the Labor Relations 
Representative of the responsible contractor/employer are unable to resolve the dispute 
within ten (10) calendar days after completion of Step 2, the grieving party may submit 
the specific issue, in writing with all issues of contention specified, to Arbitration with 
notice to the Design Build Contractor, any other c ontractor involved and GDC . 
Expenses incurred in arbitration shall be borne equally by the Union and the contractor 
involved and the decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both parties, 
provided, however that the arbitrator shall not have the authority to alter or amend or 
add to or delete from the provisions of this Agreement in any way. 
(d) Unless the grievance is raised, served in writing, referred, appealed and submitted to 
arbitration within the time limit that each stage sets forth in this Agreement, it shall be 
deemed waived and the matter shall be deemed closed. The contractor/employer’s 
failure to respond to a grievance within the specified time limit shall be deemed a 
denial requiring the grievant to timely proceed to the next step. Time limits may only 
be extended by the written consent of the Design Build Contractor, any other contractor 
involved and the involved Union(s). 
(e) The Arbitrator's authority shall be limited to the interpretation and application of the 
expressed terms of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall not have the authority to 
restrict any right that is reserved to management or to add or subtract from, or to amend 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

14 
 
 
or modify this Agreement. The Arbitrator's jurisdiction is limited to the scope of this 
Agreement and does not extend to any other Project Labor Agreement(s) for the 
Hudson Tunnel Project, or project scopes. In the event of a default or other failure by 
the Union to timely and efficiently proceed during Arbitration, the Arbitrator may, 
after written notice, dismiss the grie vance with prejudice. An Arbitration award 
rendered under this Agreement shall not have precedential effect on any other project. 
(f) Design Build Contractor shall be notified by the involved c ontractor of all actions at 
Steps 2 and at arbitration and, further , Design Build Contractor shall, upon its own 
request, be permitted to participate fully in all proceedings at such steps. 
(g) The parties designate Martin Scheinman and Howard Edelman as Arbitrators who shall 
serve alternatively as grievances arise, in that o rder. In the event that neither is 
available to serve, the Design Build Contractor or its representative shall select an 
alternative from a list of  Labor Arbitrators through the American Arbitration 
Association. 
(h) Both the GDC and the Design Build Contractor (even if it is not an involved employer) 
shall be provided with written notice of each step of  the grievance process and may 
intervene at any step, including in an action to enforce or vacate an arbitration award, and 
be heard as a party in interest. The Arbitrator's fee will be split equally among the 
directly involved contractor and the pertinent Union. 
ARTICLE 11 ASSIGNMENTS/RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES 
1. Contractors shall conduct a pre-job meeting for the purpose of discussing the scope 
and schedule of the work and intended work assignments. Except in emergency situations, final 
work assignments shall be made in writing no later than ten (10) days prior to the start of work. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

15 
 
 
2. Contractors of whatever tier working under the terms of this Agreement are 
required to notify the Unions of the time, date and place of the pre-job meeting. The Unions will 
then notify all of the local unions of the specifics of the pre-job meeting to ensure that all Unions 
have the opportunity to be in attendance and make their respective jurisdictional claims. 
3. The procedures of the National Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes 
(“National Plan”) shall apply to the settlement of all jurisdictional disputes involving Project 
Work. All contractors on this Project agree to assign work in accordance with and be bound  to 
the terms and conditions of the National Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes in the 
Construction Industry. All jurisdictional questions between or among the parties to this 
agreement will be settled in accordance with the procedural rules and regulations of the Plan for 
the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes in the Construction Industry, or any successor plan, and 
all Unions agree that the assignments of the contractor(s) shall be followed until the jurisdictional 
question is resolved in accordance with this Section. 
4. There will be no Prohibited Activity of any kind arising out of any jurisdictional 
dispute. Pending the resolution of the dispute, the work shall continue uninterrupted and as 
assigned by the  c ontractor. Article 9 applies to jurisdictional strikes in violation of this 
Agreement. 
5. National Plan jurisdictional awards shall be final and binding on the disputing 
Unions and the involved contractor on this Project only and may be enforced in New York Courts 
with competent jurisdiction (state or federal). 
ARTICLE 12 DURATION 
 This Agreement applies to Project Work until GDC has issued a Certificate of 
Substantial Completion, and the Design Build Contractor achieves substantial completion, once 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

16 
 
 
the Design Build Contractor satisfies all of the substantial completion conditions required for 
the Project as defined in the Design Build Contract for the Project. Following GDC’s issuance 
of a Certificate of Substantial Completion, this Agreement will have no further force of effect 
and shall terminate.  
ARTICLE 13 EXTENSION OF AREA CONTRACTS 
1. The provisions of Article 9 (no-strikes-no lockouts) above shall apply for the 
duration of this Agreement notwithstanding the expiration of any local, regional or other 
applicable labor agreement having application at the Project and/or failure of the parties to that 
agreement to reach a new contract. In the event that such a local, regional, or other applicable 
labor agreement does expire and the parties to that agreement have failed to reach agreement on 
a new contract, work will continue on the Project under terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and as required by applicable prevailing wage law. 
2. The Schedule A Agreements shall continue in full force and effect unti l the 
contractor and/or Union parties to the Schedule A Agreements notify GDC in writing of the 
agreed upon changes in provisions of such agreements which are applicable to the Project, and 
their effective dates. There shall be no violation of Article 9 or any other provisions of this 
Agreement during the course of such negotiations. Any disputes regarding application to this 
Project shall be resolved through the Arbitration provisions of this Agreement. 
3. It is agreed that any provisions negotiated into the Schedule A Agreements will 
not apply to work on this Project if such provisions are less favorable to this Project than those 
uniformly required of contractors for construction work normally covered by those agreements. 
Any disputes concerning this Section shall be subject exclusively to the Arbitration provisions 
of this Agreement, nor shall any such provision be recognized or applied by the Project if it may 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

17 
 
 
be construed to apply exclusively, or predominantly, to work covered by this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 14 - HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUM PAYMENTS, SHIFTS AND 
HOLIDAYS 
1. The standard work week shall consist of forty (40 ) hours of work at straight time 
rates, Monday through Friday, eight (8) hours per day, plus one-half (½) hour unpaid lunch period. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement , a Contract or may schedule shifts as 
permitted by any requirements of the Hudson Tunnel Project final environment impact statement 
and permit requirements, including, without limitation, a work week that includes twelve (12) hour 
shifts; or a four (4) day work week (“4/10s”), ten (10) hours per day at straight time rates, plus one 
half (½) hour unpaid lunch.  
2. Saturday Work. The Contractor may schedule a Saturday workday and such time 
shall be scheduled and paid at time and one half (1½).    
3. Make-Up Day. When conditions beyond the control of a Contractor, such as severe 
weather, power failure, fire, or natural disaster, prevent the performance of Project Work on a 
regularly scheduled work day, the Contractor may, on a craft -by-craft basis, schedule another  
weekday or Saturday (where on 4/10s) or schedule Saturday (where on 5/8s) during that calendar 
week in which a workday was lost, at straight time pay provided it does not actually constitute 
overtime for the employees, as set forth in Section 6 below. With respect to Local Union No. 40 
of Bridge, Structural Ornamental, and Reinforcing Iron Workers, AFL-CIO, the Schedule A shall 
control make-up day scheduling and pay.       
4. In accordance with project needs, there shall be flexible start times with advanc e 
notice from contractor to the Union.  The Day Shift shall commence between the hours of 6:00 
a.m. and 9:00 a.m., and shall end between the hours of 2:30 and 5:30 for an eight (8) hour day and 
up to 7:30pm for a ten (10) hour day.  The Second/ Evening Shift shall commence between the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

18 
 
 
hours of 3:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., unless different times are necessitated by GDC’s phasing plans 
on specific projects.  The Night Shift shall commence between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 2:00 
a.m., unless different times are necessitated by GDC’s phasing plans on specific projects.  Subject 
to the foregoing, starting and quitting times shall occur at the Project Work site designated by the 
contractor.  
5. Notice - Contractors shall provide not less than five (5)  days prior notice t o the 
Union involved as to the work week and work hour schedules to be worked or such lesser notice 
as may be mutually agreed upon. 
6. Overtime shall be paid for any work (i) over an employee’s regularly scheduled 
work day, i.e., work over eight (8) hours in a day where 5/8s is scheduled or work over ten (10) 
hours in a day where 4/10s is scheduled, and (ii) over forty (40) hours in a week. Overtime shall 
be paid at time and one half (1½) Monday through Saturday.  There shall be no stacking or 
pyramiding of overtime pay under any circumstances.  There will be no restriction upon the 
Contractor’s scheduling of overtime or the nondiscriminatory designation  of employees to work 
overtime, including the use of employees, other than those who have worked the regular or 
scheduled work week, at the rates in the applicable Schedule A Agreements.  The Contractor shall 
have the right to schedule work so as to minimize overtime, or schedule overtime as to some, but 
not all, of the crafts, or whether or not to schedule overtime of a continuous nature. 
7. Flexible Schedules - Scheduling of shift work, including Saturday and Sunday 
work, shall be within the discretion of the Contractor in order to meet Project Work schedules and 
existing Project Work conditions.  It is not necessa ry to work a day shift in order to schedule a 
second shift or third shift, or to schedule all of the crafts when only certain crafts or employees are 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

19 
 
 
needed. Shifts must be scheduled with not less than five workdays’ notice to the Union or such 
lesser notice as may be mutually agreed upon. 
8. Second and/or Third Shifts  - All employees will be paid at the same wage rate 
regardless of the shift.  
9. Holidays - There shall be only nine (9) recognized/observed holidays for Project 
Work: 
   New Year’s Day 
  Martin Luther King Day President’s Day 
  Memorial Day Veteran’s Day  
  Labor Day  Thanksgiving Day 
  Independence Day Christmas Day 
All said holidays shall be observed on the calendar date except those holidays which occur on 
Saturday shall be observed on the previous Friday and those that occur on Sunday shall be 
observed on the following Monday. Regular holiday pay, if any, for work performed on the nine  
recognized holidays shall be in accordance with the applicable Schedule A  Agreement for work 
performed on a holiday, even where the holiday differs from those recognized in the Schedule A 
Agreements.  
10. A Contractor may, if considered necessary for the protection of life and/or safety 
of employees or others, suspend all or a portion of Project Work.  In such instances, employees 
will be paid for actual time worked, except that when a Contractor requests that employees remain 
at the Project Work  site available for work, employees will be paid for that time at their hourly 
rate of pay. 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

20 
 
 
ARTICLE 15 APPRENTICES  
Recognizing the need to maintain continuing supportive programs designed to develop 
adequate numbers of competent workers in the construction industry and to provide craft entry 
opportunities for minorities, women and economically disadvantag ed non- minority males, 
Contractors will employ apprentices in their respective crafts to perform such work as is within 
their capabilities and which is customarily performed by the craft in which they are indentured.  
Contractors may utilize apprentices an d such other appropriate classifications in the maximum 
ratio permitted by the New York State Department of Labor (“NYSDOL”) or the maximum 
allowed per trade.  Apprentices and such other classifications as are appropriate shall be employed 
in a manner consistent with the provisions of the appropriate Schedule A  Agreements CBA. 
Should a c ontractor request that apprentices be provided for Project Work, the referring Union 
shall comply with that request so long as it is consistent with the maximum ratios permitted by 
NYSDOL. The Unions shall use good faith efforts to make apprentices available on Project Work 
upon request by c ontractors and within the limits specified by the NYSDOL, the P arties will 
continue to engage in all reasonable efforts to improve the utilization of apprentices on Project 
Work.  
ARTICLE 16 MANAGED CARE AND ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
PROGRAM FOR OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES AND DISEASES 
GDC, the contractors and the Unions recognize the benefit of providing employees who 
incur compensable injuries or suffer occupational diseases as defined in the New York State 
Workers’ Compensation Law and any other applicable law with improved access to quality 
medical care, and to reduce the frequency and extent of disputes regarding benefit entitlement. 
A 
system for medical care delivery , including, without limitation , utilizing a Preferred Provider 
Organization (“PPO”), and for benefit entitlement dispute resolution of such injuries and diseases of 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

21 
 
 
(“Managed Care/ ADR Program ”), will be designed and participation in the Managed Care/ ADR 
Program will be mandatory. The terms of the Managed Care/ADR Program will be memorialized and, 
upon agreement of the parties, attached to this Agreement as Exhibit “4.”  
ARTICLE 17 PROJECT LOGISTICS  
GDC, the contractors and the Unions recognize the Project is an early works project of the 
larger construction plan known as the Hudson Tunnel Project that contemplates construction in 
both the State of New York and New Jersey. It is agreed by all parties that the Project worksite is 
in the State of New York and this Agreement and the Schedule A Agreements exclusively govern 
the Project. The Unions acknowledge and will not seek to challenge staging and/or administrative 
sites for the Project being located outside of New York, including, without limitation, the barging 
of material or personnel to the worksite from New Jersey. Should any dispute arise regarding these 
issues, such a dispute will be resolved in conformity with Article 13.   
ARTICLE 18 HELMETS TO HARDHATS 
1. The contractors and the Unions recognize a desire to facilitate the entry into the 
building and construction trades of veterans who are interested in careers in the building and 
construction industry. Contractors and Unions agree to utilize the services of New York Helmets 
to Hardhats program to serve as a resource for preliminary orientation, assessment of 
construction aptitude, referral to apprenticeship programs or hiring halls, counseling and 
mentoring, support network, employment opportunities and other needs as identified by the 
parties. 
2. The Design Build Contractor, any other contractors and the Unions agree to make 
a good faith effort to coordinate with the Helmets to Hardhats program to create and maintain an 
integrated database of veterans interested in working on this Project and of apprenticeship and 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

22 
 
 
employment opportunities for this Project. To the extent permitted by law, the Unions will give 
credit to such veterans for bona fide, provable past experience. 
ARTICLE 19 COUNTERPARTS AND FACSIMILE TRANSMISSION 
 This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and any party hereto 
may execute any such counterpart, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed 
to be an original, and all of which counterparts taken together shall constitute but one and the 
same instrument. Any signatures delivered by a party by facsimile transmission shall be 
deemed an original signature hereto. 
ARTICLE 20 ENTIRE UNDERSTANDING 
 The Parties agree that the total results of their bargaining with respect to the subject 
matter of this Agreement are embodied in the Agreement and neither party is required to render 
any performance not set forth in the wording of this Agreement. This Agreement may be 
amended only by written agreement signed by each of the parties to this Agreement. 
 
The parties have caused this Agreement to be executed and effective as of the __ day of 
______, 2023.  
Gateway Development Commission  
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Kris Kolluri  
Chief Executive Officer  
 
District Council of New York and Vicinity of the Union Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners 
of America 
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Joseph Geiger  
Executive Secretary Treasurer  
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

23 
 
 
 
Local Union No. 3 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO 
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Christopher Erikson  
Business Manager  
 
Local Union No. 40 of Bridge, Structural Ornamental, and Reinforcing Iron Workers, AFL-
CIO 
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Robert Walsh  
Business Manager  
 
Building, Concrete, Excavating & Common Laborers Local No. 731 
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Carmine D’Amato  
Business Manager 
 
Teamsters, Local Union No. 282 
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Thomas Gesualdi  
President  
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

24 
 
 
EXHIBIT 1 - LETTER OF ASSENT 
 The undersigned party confirms that it agrees to be a party to and be bound by the 
Project Memorandum of Agreement for the Hudson River Ground Stabilization Project 
(“Agreement”) as such Agreement may, from time to time, be amended by the parties or 
interpreted pursuant to its terms. The terms of the Agreement, its Schedules, and Exhibits are 
hereby incorporated by reference herein. 
 The undersigned, as a Contractor or Subcontractor (hereinafter Contractor) on the 
Project as defined in the Agreement (“Project”), for and in consideration of the award to it of a 
contract to perform work on said Project, and in further consideration of the mutual promises 
made in the Agreement, a copy of which was received and is acknowledged, hereby: 
1. Accepts and agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Agreement, together 
with any and all schedules and exhibits; amendments and supplements now existing or 
which are later made thereto.  
2. Agrees to be bound by the legally established local trust agreements sets forth in the 
Agreement.  
3. Authorizes the parties to such local trust agreements to appoint trustees and successor 
trustees to administer the trust funds and hereby ratifies and accepts the trustees so 
appointed as if made by the Contractor. 
4. Certifies that it has no commitments or agreements that would preclude its full and 
complete compliance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement . The Contractor 
agrees to employ labor that can work in harmony with all other labor on the Project and 
shall require labor harmony from every lower tier subcontractor it engages to work on 
the Project.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

25 
 
 
5. Agrees to secure from any Contractor(s), which is or becomes a s ubcontractor (of any 
tier), to it, a duly executed Agreement to be bound in form identical to this document. 
 
 
            
Signature        Date 
 
      
Print name 
 
           
Title and Organization 
 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
 
 
  


=== PAGE BREAK ===

2 
 
 
 


=== PAGE BREAK ===

3 
 
 
 
 


=== PAGE BREAK ===

4 
 
 
EXHIBIT 3 – INDEX OF SCHEDULE A AGREEMENTS 
Union Current Agreement w/ 
Building, Concrete, Excavating & Common Laborers 
Local 731 Independent 
Building, Concrete, Excavating & Common Laborers 
Local 731 
Members of the General 
Contractors Association of New 
York, Inc. 
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 282, High 
Rise Contract 
Building Contractors Association 
& Independents 
Local Union Number 40 & 361 of Bridge, Structural 
Ornamental and Reinforcing Iron Workers AFL-CIO Independent 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Heavy Carpenters 
GCA 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Dockbuilders Local No. 1556 
GCA 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Dockbuilders Local 1556 
Independent 
The District Council of Carpenters of New York City 
and Vicinity for Dockbuilders Local Union No. 1556 
Independent New Jersey Dockbuilder Agreement  
 
Independent  
 
The District Council of Carpenters of New York City 
and Vicinity for Dockbuilders Local Union No. 1556  
 
CCLENJ and ACCNJ  
 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Millwright Local 740 
Independent 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Timbermen Local 1556 
Independent 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

5 
 
 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Timbermen Local 1556 
GCA 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Heavy Carpenters 
Independent 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Carpenters 
Manufacturing Woodworkers 
Association of Greater New York 
Incorporated 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America 
The Hoisting Trade Association 
of New York, Inc. 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America 
The Test Boring Association 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America 
Building Contractors Association 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America 
The Association of Wall-Ceiling 
& Carpentry Industries of New 
York, Incorporated 
The District Council of NYC and Vicinity of the United 
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America  
New York City Millwright 
Association 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners 
Greater New York Floor Coverers 
Association 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Carpenters 
Association of Architectural 
Metal & Glass 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Carpenters 
Association of Concrete 
Contractors of NY 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Building Construction Carpenters 
Independent 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

6 
 
 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America Independent Resilient Floor Coverers 
Agreement  
Independent 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Shop Carpenters 
Independent 
 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

7 
 
 
EXHIBIT 4 – MANAGED CARE & ADR PROGRAM  
To be added 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
  
4 
 
 
EXHIBIT B 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING 
ENGINEERS LOCAL 14-14B, AFL-CIO, THE INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL 15, 
15A, 15C, 15D, 15G & 15H, AFL-CIO AND THE GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION 
Adopted - 9/11/23


=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject 
 
to
 Approval of the 
 
GDC
 
 Board
 of 
 
Commissioners
 
 
HUDSON  RIVER  GROUND  STABILIZATION  
 
 This memorandum 
 
of
 understanding 
 
is
 
 
entered
 into by and 
 
between
 the 
 
International
 Union of Operating 
Engineers 
 
Local
 14-14B, 
 
AFL
-CIO (“Local 
 
14”),
 the International 
 
Union
 
 
of
 Operating Engineers 
 
Local
 15, 
 
15A,
 
15C, 15D, 15G & 15H, 
 
AFL
-CIO 
 
(“Local
 15”), the 
 
Gateway
 
 
Development
 
 
Commission
 (“
GDC
”) and [insert 
name of employer
 
 
 
of
 
 
Local
 14 & 
 
Local
 15 
 
represented
 employees
] (
“_____”) (collectively 
 
the
 “
Parties
”) on this 
____ day of ____________, 2023.
 
 
 The 
 
Parties
 
 
 
agree
 
 
that,
 for work 
 
performed
 on the 
 
Hudson
 
 
River
 Ground 
 
Stabilization
 (the “
Project
”), 
which is 
 
part
 of a 
 
larger
 construction plan known as
 
 
 
the
 Hudson Tunnel 
 
Project,
 the 
 
terms
 
 
and
 conditions of 
employment of 
 
Local
 14 and 
 
Local
 15 represented 
 
employees
 
 
of
 [insert 
 
name
 
 
of
 
 
employer
 of 
 
Local
 14 & Local 15 
represented employees
 
]
 
 
shall
 
 
be
 
 
in
 accordance
 
 
 
with
 
 
Local
 
 
14’s
 and 
 
Local
 15’s 
 
collective
 
 
 
bargaining
 agreements
 
 
with the 
 
General
 
 
Contractors
 
 
Association
 
 
of
 
 
New
 
 York, 
 
Inc.
 
 
(the
 
 
“GCA
 
 
 
Agreements”)
 and/or 
 
such
 
 
other
 
association 
 
collective
 bargaining 
 
agreements
 
 
to 
 
which
 Local 14 
 
and/or
 
 
Local
 15 are 
 
parties,
 as
 
 
may 
 
become
 
applicable, together 
 
with
 the 
 
following
 terms: 
 
1.
 
 
Local 14 and 
 
Local
 15 agree 
 
to
 
 
participate
 in a 
 
Managed
 
 
Care
 and 
 
Alternative
 Dispute Resolution 
program 
 
which
 
 
is
 to 
 
be
 designed pursuant to 
 
Article
 16 of 
 
the
 
 
Project
 Memorandum of 
 
Agreement
 (the 
“MOA”), 
 
but
 subject 
 
to
 their right to 
 
opt
 
 
out
 of the same upon 
 
written
 
 
notice
 to [insert name 
 
of
 
 
employer
 
 
of 
 
Local
 14 & 
 
Local
 15 
 
represented
 
 
emplo
yees
 
].
  
 
The
 Parties recognize and 
 
agree
 
 
 
that
 
 
this
 
 
paragraph
 
 
shall
 
in no 
 
way
 
 
apply
 
 
to
 
 
nor
 
 
limit
 any rights 
 
that
 any 
 
Local
 14 or 
 
Local
 15 
 
represented
 employee would 
 
have
 
under the Jones 
 
Act
 
 
a/k/a
 the 
 
Merchant
 Marine 
 
Act
 
 
of
 1920. 
2.
 
 
Local 14 and 
 
Local
 15 agree to 
 
Article
 9 
 
entitled
 
 
“Work
 Stoppages and 
 
Lockouts
” of 
 
the
 
 
MOA
 
 
 
with
 the 
exception 
 
that
 such terms 
 
of
 
 
the
 no 
 
strike
 language 
 
shall
 
 
not
 apply upon the expiration of the 
 
GCA
 
 
Agreements
 
 and/or
 
 
such
 
 
other
 applicable association 
 
agreements
 to 
 
which
 
 
Local
 
 
14
 and/or 
 
Local
 15 
 
are
 
parties, 
 
but
 
 
such
 
 
terms
 shall 
 
resume
 
 
in force 
 
and
 
 
effect
 upon 
 
execution
 of 
 
new
 
 
applicable
 
 
collective 
bargaining 
 
agreement(s)
 
 
and
 no 
 
Local
 14 and/or 
 
Local
 15 
 
represented
 
 
employees
 
 
shall
 be 
 
displaced
 
 
as
 a 
result of 
 
any
 
 
action
 
 
they
 take upon 
 
ex
piration of the 
 
GCA
 
 
Agreements
 
 
 
and/or
 
 
such
 other 
 
applicable
 
 
association 
 
agreements
 
 
to which 
 
Local
 14 
 
and/or
 
 
Local
 15 are 
 
parties.
 
3.  Local 14 and 15 agree  to  Article  17 entitled  “Project Logistics” of  the MOA  but  by  doing so  neither  Local  
relinquishes
 
 
 
any
 of 
 
its
 
 
jurisdiction
 as
 
 
to 
 
the
 
 
work
 
 
to
 be performed 
 
on
 
 
the
 
 
Project
 and the 
 
Parties
 
 
all
 agree
 
 
that nothing contained in 
 
Article
 17 
 
shall
 
 
allow
 
 
for
 
 
the
 assignment of 
 
Local
 14 
 
and
 
 
Local
 15 
 
work
 
 
to
 any 
other labor union
 
. 
 
4.
 
 
[
insert name 
 
of
 
 
employer
 
 
 
of
 Local 14 & 
 
Local
 15 represented 
 
employees
] and the GDC 
 
agree
 
 
that any 
disputes or conflicts 
 
arising
 
 
as
 
 
 
between
 the 
 
terms
 
 
of
 
 
the
 
 
GCA
 
 
 
Agreements
 
 
 
and/or
 
 
such
 other applicable 
association 
 
agreements
 
 
to which 
 
Local
 14 
 
and/or
 
 
Local
 15 are 
 
parties
 
 
and 
 
the
 
 
PLA
 
 
shall
 be governed 
solely by 
 
the
 
 
terms
 
 
and
 conditions of the 
 
GCA
 
 Agreements
 and/or such 
 
other
 
 
applicable
 
 
association
 
agreements
 
 
 
to
 
 
which
 
 
Local
 14 and/or 
 
Local
 15 
 
are
 
 
parties.
 
5.
 
 
Unless 
 
specifically
 modified herein, all 
 
other
 
 
terms
 
 
and
 conditions of 
 
employment
 of the 
 
Local
 14 
members 
 
and
 
 
Local
 15 
 
members
 working on the 
 
Project
 
 
shall
 be governed in their 
 
entirety
 by 
 
the
 
 
GCA
 
 
Agreements
 
 and/or
 
 
such
 
 
other
 applicable association 
 
agreements.
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
 
 
Acknowledged and agreed to by the following four (4) parties: 
 
International Union of Operating Engineers  International Union of Operating Engineers 
Local 14-14B, AFL-CIO    Local 15, 15A, 15C, 15D, 15G & 15H, AFL-CIO 
 
By: _______________________________  By: ____________________________________ 
Edwin L. Christian, Business Manager   Thomas A. Callahan, President & Business Manager 
 
[insert name of employer of Local 14 &   Gateway Development Commission 
Local 15 represented employees] 
By: _____________________________  By: ________________________________ 
[insert name and title]     Kris Kolluri, Chief Executive Officer 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  Adopted – 9/11/23 
 
#0923-06: HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT – MANHATTAN TUNNEL PROJECT – AUTHORIZATION OF STIPEND 
PROGRAM 
The Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”) includes the construction of a new tunnel below the Hudson 
River between New York and New Jersey, and the rehabilitation of the existing 112-year-old North River 
Tunnel, and is intended to improve resiliency, reliability, and redundancy for the busiest section of the 
Northeast Corridor (“NEC”), which also is the busiest passenger rail line in the United States.  
The Gateway Development Commission (the “ Commission” or “ GDC”) is a public and 
government-sponsored authority established by bi-state legislation (the “ GDC Act ”) in July 2019. The 
Commission is serving as the NEPA Project Sponsor and federal grant recipient for the HTP.  
In July 2023, the Commission was notified by the Federal Transit Administration (“ FTA”) that it 
was entering the Engineering Phase of the FTA’s Capital Investment Grants (“ CIG”) Program. The 
Commission expects to reach a Full Funding Grant Agreement with the FTA in 2024.  
The Commission has hosted a series of market sounding forums with the public to assess effective 
contract packaging strategies for the various segments of the core and shell tunnelling, including the 
Manhattan Tunnel project. The Manhattan Tunnel project is a component of the HTP, and comprises 
construction of the section of tunnel that will traverse the west side of Manhattan from the Hudson River 
bulkhead to the third section of the Hudson Yards Concrete Casing (“HYCC-3”).     
The Commission staff have determined that the development and institution of a stipend program 
in support of a two-step procurement process for the Manhattan Tunnel project procurement is in the 
best interest of, and provides the best value to, the Commission. The Commission currently intends to 
offer a stipend or payment for work product to each unsuccessful proposer that submits a proposal that 
satisfies those conditions that will be specified in the procurement documents. The winning proposer will 
not receive a stipend or payment for work product. 
This stipend program will encourage bidding teams to invest appropriate level of resources and 
technical development, to encourage innovation, and to prepare a price-certain responsive bid to the 
Manhattan Tunnel project procurement. 
These stipends or payments for work product will be made in consideration for the proposer’s 
transfer and assignment to the Commission of rights to the proposer’s intellectual property, ideas, 
techniques, concepts, and approaches contained in its proposal and/or other work product provided by 
the proposer during the RFP phase.  
In order to enact such a stipend program, the Commission wishes to adopt the Resolutions set 
forth below.  
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Commissioners 
Barbas, Bauer, Coscia, Glen, Grewal-Virk, and Rosen voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the Chief Executive Officer of the Commission is hereby authorized to direct GDC 
staff to develop and institute a stipend program to support the Manhattan Tunnel project procurement 
process, as detailed in the GDC Act and applicable Commission policies and procedures, at a cost not to 
exceed $6,600,000, which represents a not to exceed cost per bidder of $1,650,000, subject to the 
availability of funds; and be it further 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 9/11/23 
2 
 
RESOLVED, that the Chief Executive Officer of the Commission is hereby authorized to direct 
Commission staff to review eligible submissions and administer and cause to pay stipends to eligible 
proposers. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 9/11/23 
#0923-07: APPOINTMENT OF THE CHIEF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICER OF THE GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT 
COMMISSION 
Section 3.01 of the Bylaws of the Gateway Development Commission (the “Commission”) includes 
the position of Chief Administrative Officer as an initial officer of the Commission. 
Robert Hickman has been hired by the Commission as the Chief Administrative and Legislative 
Officer.  
The Board finds that in order to enable the efficient and timely execution of the Commission’s 
duties, the Chief Administrative and Legislative Officer role should be designated and appointed as the 
Chief Administrative Officer position specified in Section 3.03 of the Commission’s Bylaws.  
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Commissioners 
Barbas, Bauer, Coscia, Glen, Grewal-Virk, and Rosen voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that pursuant to Section 3.03 of the Commission’s Bylaws, the Board of 
Commissioners hereby appoints Robert Hickman, the Chief Administrative and Legislative Officer, to serve 
in the capacity of Chief Administrative Officer of the Commission, directly reporting to and subject to day-
to-day supervision by the Chief Executive Officer of the Commission, with such responsibilities and 
authority described within the Bylaws and any policies promulgated by the Board of Commissioners. 