  
G
ateway Development Commission 
Regular Meeting of the Board  
Held In Person and Via Teleconference 
August 1, 2024 
MINUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Janine Bauer 
Amy Rosen 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
Marie Therese Dominguez 
AMTRAK 
Anthony R. Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. Call to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 10:00 AM.
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk advised that public comments were being solicited virtually, public
comments were being solicited both in -person and virtually, and audio of the meeting was being live -
streamed from the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and 
that a form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway website for those who wished to 
submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting Secretary Anderson  conducted a roll call and confirmed that all Commissioners were 
present (with the exception of Commissioner Glen who joined at approximately 11:15 AM), and there was 
a quorum.  
Acting Secretary Anderson stated that adequate notice of today’s public meeting of the Board of 
Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s enabling 
legislation. 
II. R
eport on Minutes of the July 2 , 2024 Meeting
Acting Secretary Anderson  reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of July 2, 2024
were delivered in electronic form  by Acting Secretary Caulfield to the Governors of New York and New 
Jersey on July 2, 2024, and expedited approval was granted by the Governors of New York and New Jersey 
on July 2, 2024 at which time the actions recorded in the Minutes went into full force and effect. 
III. G ateway Program Update
The Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Kris Kolluri, provided an update on the execution of the 
Capital Improvement Program Full Funding Grant Agreement ( “FFGA”) for the Hudson Tunnel Project  
(“HTP”) approved by the Board on July 2, 2024.  The Commission’s Chief Financial Officer, Patrick J. McCoy, 
provided an update on funding secured for the Hudson Tunnel Project.   
Chief Executive Officer, Kris Kolluri, provided an update on the Palisades Tunnel Project, and Chief 
Technical Officer, James Anderson, provided an update on the Hudson River Ground Stabilization 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2
 
 
(“HRGS”) Project.  Anthony Gardner, Senior Director of Procurement, provided an update on the Palisades 
Tunnel Project contract award, and the Notice to Proceed for Phase Two of the HRGS Project. 
Following the presentation, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk thanked Mr. Kolluri, Mr. McCoy, Mr. Morrison 
and Mr. Gardner for the updates, and there were no questions or comments from the Board.  
IV. Public Comments
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk announced that the Commission had solicited virtual comments from the
public in advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for soliciting these comments 
was posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout today’s meeting.  
There were two (2) written comments received by 5:00 PM on July 31, 2024: 
Commenter Topic 
Shelley Armato, My Smart Plans Document Commissioning 
John Harmon, The African American Chamber 
of Commerce of New Jersey 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
C
o-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that all written comments received by 5:00 p.m. on July 31, 2024 
before the meeting were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and would 
be filed in the Commission’s records after the meeting. Gateway did not receive any additional written 
comments on the day of the Board Meeting.  
T
he following individuals provided in -person public comments during the August 1, 2024 Board 
Meeting:  
Commenter Topic 
Brian Fritsch, PCAC Hudson Tunnel Project 
Daniel Ortega, Local 825 Hudson Tunnel Project 
William Healey, NJ Alliance for Action Hudson Tunnel Project 
Dr. Sam Bowden Akbari, Regional Plan Association Hudson Tunnel Project 
V. Action Items
#0824-01: Authorization to Award Contract GDC-24-006-HTP for the Palisades Tunnel Project
Th
e Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not
have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Rosen made a motion, and Commissioner Bauer 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#0824-02: Approval of Market Case Estimate for the Palisades Tunnel Project 
Th
e Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution. Commissioner Bauer made a motion, and Commissioner Rosen 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
3
 
#0824-0 3: Authorization of Notice to Proceed for Phase 2 of Contract GDC24 -004-HTP, 
Performance of Expert Professional Design-Build Services for the Hudson River Ground 
Stabilization Project 
Th
e Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution. Commissioner Barbas made a motion, and Commissioner Bauer 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#0824-04: Appointment of the Inspector General of the Gateway Development Commission 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution. Commissioner Rosen made a motion, and Vice Chair Coscia 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
VI. Executive Session
C
o-Chair Grewal-Virk stated that the Board would enter Executive Session to discuss contract
negotiations, personnel matters, and matters in which the release of information could impair a right to 
receive funds from the United States. Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Board would reconvene the 
public meeting for the purpose of adjourning the meeting and no further business would be conducted. 
Co-Chair Grewal Virk motioned to enter into Executive Session, Commissioner Bauer seconded the 
motion, and the motion was unanimously adopted at approximately 10:40 AM.  
VII. Reconvening of Public Meeting
T
he public meeting was reconvened by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 11:15 AM. Acting 
Secretary Anderson confirmed that there was a quorum of Commissioners present.  Acting Secretary 
Anderson also noted that Commissioner Barbas was recused from the Additional Action Item. 
VIII. Additional Action Item
#0824-05: Authorization of Delegation of Authority to Chief Executive Officer in Connection
with Contract GDC-24-005-HTP for the Performance of Professional Services by Delivery
Partner to Support the Hudson Tunnel Project and Authorization of Amendment of Phase A
Task Orders
Th
e Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not
h
ave any comments on this Resolution. Commissioner Rosen made a motion, and Commissioner Bauer 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
IX. A djournment
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that there was no further business to conduct, and then motioned to
adjourn the meeting. U pon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair Grewal -Virk and seconded  by 
Commissioner Bauer the meeting was adjourned at approximately 11:25 AM.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
4
 
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Maria C. Anderson 
Maria C. Anderson, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/1/24 
#0824-01: AUTHORIZ ATION TO AWARD C ONTRACT GDC- 24-006-HTP FOR THE PALISADES 
TUNNEL PROJECT 
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between the 
State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) and throughout the 
Northeast Corridor (the "NEC"), New Jersey and New York  created the Gateway Development 
Commission ("GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the 
Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36 -1, et seq.) 
(collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful 
purpose which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, 
the state of New York, with any  local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, 
department, commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, 
Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more of them." 
2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
Accordingly, on February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation (“Amtrak”), and GDC (collectively, the “ PDA Parties”) entered into an Agreement 
(the “Project Development Agreement” or “PDA”) in order to establish their respective roles and 
responsibilities with respect to the funding, financing, right-of-way acquisition, procurement, 
delivery, and operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”). 
As further described in the PDA, the HTP has been organized into certain work packages, 
which may be updated or changed from time-to-time. The Palisades Tunnel Project (the “Palisades 
Tunnel Project”) is a work package of the HTP  and includes but is not limited to the following  
work located entirely in New Jersey :  furnishing two new hard rock tunnel boring machines 
(“TBMs”) and constructing two bored tunnels, with excavation commencing at the tunnel portal 
at the Tonnelle Avenue site and mining eastward into the Hudson County  Shaft, and furnishing 
and installing a precast concrete tunnel lining; constructing six cross passages in rock, including 
temporary support of rock and a cast- in-place concrete tunnel lining with a waterproofing 
membrane system; transportation of excavated tunnel material from the Palisades Tunn els and 
cross passages through the bored tunnels to the Tonnelle Avenue site; and constructing the 
Hudson County Shaft, including slurry walls, rock excavation and installing rock support, and rock 
mass grouting at the toe of the slurry walls, around  the entire perimeter of the shaft and within 
the entire shaft invert.  
In May of 2023, Request for Qualifications GDC23 -004 was issued by GDC soliciting 
Statements of Qualifications (“SOQ”) from entities interested in constructing the Palisades Tunnel 
Project.  SOQs were submitted from the following five (5) firms: Shea-Kiewit Tunnel Constructors, 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/1/24 
Walsh/Skanska/Traylor JV, Gateway Tunnel Contractors , Schiavone, Dragados Lane JV, and FKC 
Tutor Perini Hyundai JV .  On  February 6,  2024,  GDC issued a federally compliant Request for 
P
roposals GDC23 -004 to the se five (5) firms  to provide construction services . Proposals were 
received on June 13, 2024 from all five (5) f irms.  The proposals were reviewed by an Evaluation 
Panel consisting of technical experts and  representatives of GDC, the State of New York, NJ 
TRANSIT, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey,  and Amtrak. The Evaluation Panel 
selected Schiavone, Dragados Lane JV through a competitive evaluation of technical and price 
proposals (toge
ther, with the Contract Documents issued as part of the RFP process, referred 
to as “Contract GDC-24-006-HTP”). 
Pursuant to the foregoing report,  the following resolution was adopted,  with Co-
Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice-Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Bauer, Commissioner 
Dominguez and Commissioner Rosen voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to enter into Contract GDC-
24-00 6 -HTP with Schiavone, Dragados Lane JV at the Contract Price of $ 465,600,000 and further 
authorizing an additional amount equal to  five  percent  (5%) of the Contract Price for 
contingencies.
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to issue a notice to proceed 
for Contract GDC-24-006-HTP, and take any and all other actions consistent with this resolution, 
and to make, execute, and deliver in the name and on behalf of GDC, Contract GDC -24-006-H TP, 
and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of Contract GDC -
24-00 6 -HTP.
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all other 
actions consistent with this resolution, and to make, execute, and deliver in the name and on 
behalf of GDC, Contract GDC- 24-0
06 -HTP, and to take all other steps necessary to effectuate, 
enforce and/or comply with the terms and conditions of Contract GDC-24-006-HTP. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/1/24 
#0824-02: APPROVAL OF MARKET CASE ESTIMATE FOR THE PALISADES TUNNEL PROJECT 
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
New Jersey and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor (the " NEC"), the State of New 
Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) created the Gateway Development 
Commission ("GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codiﬁed as the 
Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y . Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36- 1, et seq.) 
(collectively, the "GDC Act").  
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry 
out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose 
which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with 
the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New 
York, with any local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, 
commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi- state agency, Amtrak, any 
individual or private ﬁrm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more of them." 2019 N.Y . Laws, 
Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e).  
On February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
(“Amtrak”), and the Gateway Development Commission (“GDC”) (collectively, the “PDA Parties”) 
entered into an agreement (the “ Project Development Agreement ”  o r  “PDA”) in order to 
establish their respective roles and responsibilities with respect to the funding, ﬁnancing, right -
of-way acquisition, procurement, delivery, and operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”).  
As further described in the PDA, the HTP has been organized into certain work packages, 
which may be updated or changed from time -to-time. The Palisades Tunnel  Project (the 
“Palisades Tunnel Project”) is a work package of the HTP , to be performed primarily pursuant to 
a construction contract and includes but is not limited to the following  work located entirely in 
New Jersey:  furnishing two new hard rock tunnel boring machines (“TBMs”) and constructing 
two bored tunnels, with excavation commencing at the tunnel portal at the Tonnelle Avenue site 
and mining eastward into the Hudson County  Shaft, and furnishing and installing a precast 
concrete tunnel lining; constructing six cross passages in rock, including temporary support of 
rock and a cast -in-place concrete tunnel lining with a waterprooﬁng membrane system; 
transportation of excavate d tunnel material from the Palisades Tunnels and cross passages 
through the bored tunnels to the Tonnelle Avenue site; and constructing the Hudson County  
Shaft, including slurry walls, rock excavation and installing rock support, and rock mass grouting 
at the toe of the slurry walls, around the entire perimeter of the shaft and within the entire shaft 
invert.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/1/24 
2 
Subject to approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners,  GDC staﬀ have calculated the 
Market Case Estimate for the Palisades Tunnel Project based on bid pricing in accordance with 
the terms of the PDA. The Market Case Estimate is $744,791,972 and includes all ﬁnal negotiated 
costs and contingencies related to the construction and delivery of the Palisades Tunnel Project.  
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Co-Chair 
Grewal-Virk, Vice-Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Bauer, Commissioner 
Domingue
z and Commissioner Rosen voting in favor:  
RESOLVED, that the GDC Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Market 
Case Estimate for the Palisades Tunnel Project.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/1/24 
3 
EXHIBIT A 
MARKET CASE ESTIMATE 
Palisades Tunnel Project 
(“Palisades Tunnel Project”) 
Market Case Estimate for Palisades Project Estimate ($M) 
Construction, Mandatory Mitigations, 
Professional Services, ROW , Permits, and 
Third Party Agreements $700,762,567 
Contingency – Construction and Support 
Costs $44,029,405 
Total $744,791,972 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/1/24 
#0824-03: AUTHORIZATION OF NOTICE TO PROCEED FOR PHASE 2 OF CONTRACT GDC- 24-004-
HTP, PERFORMANCE OF EXPERT PROFESSIONAL DESIGN -BUILD SERVICES FOR THE HUDSON 
RIVER GROUND STABILIZATION PROJECT 
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between the 
State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) and throughout the 
Northeast Corridor (the "NEC"), New Jersey and New York  created the Gateway Development 
Commission ("GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the 
Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36 -1, et seq.) 
(collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful 
purpose which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, 
the state of New York, with any  local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, 
department, commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, 
Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more of them." 
2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
On February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
(“Amtrak”), and GDC (collectively, the “ PDA Parties”) entered into an Agreement (the “Project 
Development Agreement ” or “ PDA”) in order to establish their respective roles and 
responsibilities with respect to the funding, financing, right-of-way acquisition, procurement, 
delivery, and operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”). 
As further described in the PDA, the HTP has been organized into certain work packages, 
which may  be updated or changed from time-to-time. The Hudson River Ground Stabilization 
project (the “HRGS Project”) is a critical early work package of the HTP, to be performed primarily 
pursuant to a design-build contract for ground stabilization of the bed in the Hudson River, that 
includes the construction of a test section cofferdam, full cofferdam and and ground stabilization 
improvements within the cofferdams in preparation for the subsequent passage of tunnel boring 
machines associated with the Hudson River Tunnel.  The HRGS Project will be  located under the 
Hudson River entirely on the New York side.  
Under GDC Resolution 0224 -02, the GDC Chief Executive Officer was authorized to enter 
into Contract GDC -24-004-HTP with Weeks Marine, Inc.  (“Weeks”), at the Contract Price of 
$284,000,000 and further authorized an additional amount equal to five percent (5%) of the 
Contract Price for contingencies. The HRGS Project is divided into two phases.  Phase One of the 
Project was authorized by a limited notice to proceed to Weeks under GDC Board Resolution 
0224-02 in an amount not to exceed $100 million subject to the availability of funds, for work that 
began in March 2024 and scheduled through September 2024 and included surveying, design and 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/1/24 
construction of the test cofferdam.  Phase Two of Contract GDC -24-004-HTP is anticipated to be 
performed by Weeks from October 2024 to April 2027 and includes the design and construction 
of remaining work related to the HRGS Project.  GDC Board Resolution 0224-02 required a return 
to the Board, as may be required, to authorize Phase Two of Contract GDC-24-004-HTP.   
Funding is available for Phase Two of the HRGS Project via  the Full Funding Grant 
Agreement entered into by GDC and the Federal Transit Administration on July 8, 2024 under GDC 
Board Resolution 0724- 01 approved on July 2, 2024, and the various agreements entered into 
among GDC, the United States Department of Transportation acting by and through the Executive 
Director of the Build America Bureau under the Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement 
Financing Program, the State of New York, the Treasurer of the State of New Jesey, the New Jersey 
Turnpike Authority, NJ Transit Corporation and Port Authority of New York and New Jersey on 
July 8, 2024 under GDC Board Resolution 0724-02 approved on July 2, 2024. 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Co-Chair 
Grewal-Virk, Vice-Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Bauer, Commissioner 
Dominguez and Commissioner Rosen voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to issue a notice to proceed 
for Phase Two of Contract GDC-24-004-HTP, for an amount not to exceed $184,000,000 plus five 
percent (5%) of the Contract Price for contingencies, subject to the availability of funds, and take 
any and all  other actions consistent with this resolution and take all other steps necessary to 
comply with the terms and conditions of Contract GDC-24-004-HTP. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized, within the total authorized 
amount for Contract GDC-24-004-HTP, in accordance with the terms of this Resolution, to take all 
actions necessary to effectuate the Phase One and Phase Two work that is the subject of Contract 
GDC-24-004-HTP, and take any other actions that may be required to effectuate and enforce the 
terms of Contract GDC-24-004-HTP. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/1/24 
#0824-04: APPOINTMENT OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL  OF THE GATE WAY DEVELOPMENT 
COMMISSION 
Section 3.02 of the Bylaws of the Gateway Development Commission (the “Commission”) 
includes the position of Inspector General as an officer of the Commission. 
The Board finds that in order to enable the efficient and timely execution of the 
Commission’s duties, Selvyn William Fletcher should be designated and appointed to the 
Inspector General position as specified by Section 3.03 of the Commission’s Bylaws.  
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Co-Chair 
Grewal-Virk, Vice-Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Bauer, Commissioner 
Dominguez and Commissioner Rosen voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that pursuant to Section 3.0 3 of the Commission’s Bylaws, the  Board of 
Commissioners hereby appoints Selvyn William Fletcher, to serve in the capacity of Inspector 
General of the Commission , directly reporting to and subject to day-to-day supervision by the 
Chief Executive Officer  of the Commission , with such responsibilities and authority described 
within the Bylaws and any policies promulgated by the Board of Commissioners. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/1/24 
#0824-05: AUTHORIZATION OF DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER IN 
CONNECTION WITH CONTRACT GDC-24-005-HTP FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF PROFESSIONAL 
SERVICES BY DELIVERY PARTNER TO SUPPORT THE HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT  AND 
AUTHORIZATION OF AMENDMENT OF PHASE A TASK ORDERS    
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) and throughout 
the Northeast Corridor  (the " NEC"), New  Jersey and New York  created the Gateway 
Development Commission (" GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state 
codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 
32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any 
lawful purpose which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, 
the state of New York, with any  local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, 
department, commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state 
agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more 
of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
By Resolution 0224-07 approved on February 28, 2024, the Board authorized the award 
of Contract GDC -24-005-HTP to provide professional, technical, construction management, 
project management and other support services (“Delivery Partner”) to support the H udson 
Tunnel Project (“HTP”) to MPA Delivery Partners ( comprised of Mace North America Limited, 
Parsons Transportation Group of New York, Inc.,  and Arcadis of New York, Inc.)  (“MPA”). In 
addition to Contract GDC -24-005-HTP, Resolution 0224 -07 authorized GDC to execute  T ask 
Orders 001, 002, 003, 004A, 005, 006, 007, 008 and 009 (“Phase A Task Orders”) in an amount 
not to exceed $26,823,778 (" Phase A Contract Price ”) and further authori zed an additional 
amount equal to five percent (5%) of the Phase A Contract Price for contingencies. Phase A Task 
Order Services began upon issuance of a notice to proceed in  March 2024 to support GDC and 
its Supporting or Executing Partners , NJ TRANSIT Corporation, the Port Authority of New York 
and New Jersey, and the National Railroad Passenger Corporation (“Amtrak”) (collectively “SEP”) 
in the delivery of the HTP.  Phase A Task Orders 001, 002, 003, 006, 007, and 008 are due to end 
on September 2, 2024.  GDC is required to seek Board approval of Phase B Task Orders.   
GDC has determined that  Phase A Task Orders 001, 002, 003, 006, 007 and 008 should 
b
e extended to December 31, 2024 prior to seeking Bo ard au thorization o f  Phase B Ta s k Orders.  
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was  adopted, with 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/1/24 
Co-Chair Glen, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice-Chair Coscia, Commissioner Bauer, Commissioner 
Dominguez and Commissioner Rosen voting in favor:  
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or designee is authorized to execute an 
amendment of Phase A Task Orders 001, 002, 003, 006, 007, and 008 of Contract GDC -24-005-
HTP to extend the term to December 31, 2024, and further authorizes an increase in the amount 
of $34,465,222 to the Phase A Contract Price for a total amount not exceed $61,289,000 ("Phase 
A Increased Contract Price ”) and further authorizes an additional amount equal to five percent 
(5%) of the Phase A Increased Contract Price for contingencies, in each case subject to the 
availability of funds, and to take any and all other actions, consistent with this resolution, to make, 
execute, and deliver in the name and on behalf of GDC, any amendments of Phase A Task Orders 
001, 002, 003, 006, 007, and 008, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms 
and conditions of Contract GDC-24-005-HTP. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Chief 
Administrative Officer are each authorized to take any and all actions consistent with Contract 
GDC-24-005-HTP and Phase A Task Orders  as amended, and make, execute, and deliver in the 
name of and on behalf of GDC any other documents and certifications as may be necessary or 
required in connection therewith. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to approve, create, amend, 
manage, administer, and terminate Contract GDC-24-005-HTP and Phase A Task Orders on behalf 
of GDC upon such terms as the Chief Executive Officer  may deem proper, and to enter into or 
execute any such agreements and other documents on behalf of GDC as may be necessary or 
required in connection with the establishment, maintenance, amendment, and termination of 
Contract GDC-24-005-HTP and Phase A Task Orders, consistent with this Resolution. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, is authorized to delegate, in writing, the 
authority to authorize, approve, create, amend, manage, and/or terminate any aspect of Contract 
GDC-24-005-HTP and/or Phase A Task Orders as may be required to other officers or employees 
of GDC provided that the Chief Executive Officer  provides notice in writing to the Co -Chairs and 
Vice Chair of the Board of such delegation, and any delegations of authority having occurred prior 
hereto are hereby ratified. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer  or his designee may enter into  and 
execute any documents on behalf of GDC in connection with Contract GDC -24-005-HTP and/or 
the Phase A Task Orders in their discretion, and any such documents having been executed prior 
hereto are hereby ratified. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to settle all claims by or 
against GDC arising out of the Phase A Task Orders  where the total payment or amount of the 
claim is not in excess of $500,000. Claims against GDC shall include claims against individuals for 
which GDC would be responsible under Article VII of GDC’s Bylaws (“Defense and Indemnification 
of Individuals”); provided, however, that in the case of claims against individuals for which GDC 
would be responsible under said Article VII whi ch are covered by insurance purchased by or on 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/1/24 
the amount for which insurance carriers are responsible. 
behalf of such individuals, GDC shall pay such claims only to the extent that they are in excess of 