G
ateway Development Commission 
Meeting of The Board  
Held in Person and via Teleconference 
February 28, 2024 
MINUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Janine Bauer 
Amy Rosen 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
Marie Therese Dominguez 
AMTRAK 
Anthony R. Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. Call to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 10:00 AM.
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk advised that as part of the transition from virtual meetings, public comments
were being solicited both in-person and virtually, and audio of the meeting was being live-streamed from 
the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and 
that a form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway website for those who wished to 
submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting Secretary Caulfield conducted a roll call and confirmed  that all Commissioners were 
present, and there was a quorum.  
Acting Secretary Caulfield stated that adequate notice of today’s regular public meeting of the 
Board of Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s 
enabling legislation. 
II. E
xecutive Session
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk stated that the Board would enter Executive Session to discuss contract
ne
gotiations, personnel matters, and matters in which the release of information could impair a right to 
receive funds from the United States. Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Board would reconvene the 
public meeting and business would be conducted. Co-Chair Grewal-Virk motioned to enter into 
Executive Session, Commissioner Bauer seconded the motion, and the motion was unanimously 
adopted at approximately 10:05 AM. 
III. Reconvening of Public Meeting
The public meeting was reconvened by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 10:50 AM.  Acting
Secretary Caulfield confirmed that there was a quorum of Commissioners present. 
IV. R eport on Minutes of the February 16, 2024 Meeting
Acting Secretary Caulfield reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of Februar y 16,
2024
 were delivered in electronic form  by Acting Secretary Caulfield  to the Governors of New York and 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
2
 
New Jersey on February 16, 2024 and that the time for action by the Governors of New York and New 
Jersey will expire at midnight on March 4, 2024, at which time the actions recorded in the Minutes went 
into full force and effect. 
V. G ateway Program Update  
The Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Kris Kolluri,  provided updates on the Gateway 
Development Commission’s effort to secure a Delivery Partner to deliver human capital in a cost-efficient 
manner demonstrating a major milestone to support the Hudson Tunnel Project .  Megan Strickland, 
Deputy Chief Program Officer, provided a summary of the professional services to be provided by the 
Delivery Partner, including technical, financial, compliance, risk management, scheduling and quality 
assurance functions.  Anthony Gardner , Senior Director of Procurement,  described the procurement 
process used to select the Delivery Partner.   
Patrick McCoy, Acting Chief Financial Officer, presented the RRIF Local Funding Agreements for 
approval by the Board which memorialize the payments to be provided to GDC from the State of New 
York, NJ TRANSIT, and the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey  and which are required by the US 
Department of Transportation. 
Following the presentation, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk thanked Mr. Kolluri and the rest of the Gateway 
staff for the update, and there were no questions or comments from the Board.  
VI. P
ublic Comments  
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk announced that the Commission had solicited in -person and virtual 
comments from the public in advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for 
soliciting these comments was posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throu ghout 
today’s meeting. She also indicated that public attending in -person had an opportunity to sign up when 
arriving today.  
There were two (2) written comments received by 5:00 PM on Tuesday, February 27, 2024: 
Commenter Topic 
Sara Hopp, ATB Furnished Housing Housing 
Jamila Glean, R.F. Wilkins Consultants, Inc. DBE Diversity Opportunities 
Co-
Chair Grewal-Virk noted that all written comments received on February 27, 2024 before the 
meeting were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and would be filed in 
the Commission’s records after the meeting. Gateway received one (1) additional written comment on 
the day of the Board Meeting which was posted on the Gateway Program website and filed in the 
Commission’s records after the meeting. 
Commenter Topic 
Gerald Keenan, NJ Alliance for Action Congratulations on the Hudson Stabilization 
Award 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
3
 
The following individuals provided in-person public comments during the February 28, 2024 Board 
Meeting: 
Commenter Topic 
Julie Harris, Lu Engineers DBE Participation 
Yvette Richardson, SRW Engineering & 
Architecture 
DBE Participation 
Jamila Glean, R.F. Wilkins Consultants, Inc. DBE Participation 
Sophia Vala, Regional Plan Association N/A 
Allan Hunt, Grant Engineering N/A 
VII. Action Items 
#0224-07:  Authorization of award of contract GDC-24-005-HTP for the performance of 
professional services by a delivery partner to support the Hudson Tunnel Project 
The B
oard acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution. Commissioner Rosen made a motion, and Commissioner Bauer 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
It
em #0224-08: Authorization to enter into, execute and amend RRIF Local Funding 
Agreements with New Jersey Transit Corporation, The Port Authority Of New York And New 
Jersey, and the State Of New York 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have 
any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Bauer  made a motion, and Commissioner Rosen 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
VIII. A djournment  
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that there was no further business to conduct, and then requested a 
motion to adjourn the meeting. Upon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk and seconded 
by Commissioner Bauer, the meeting was adjourned at approximately 11:10 AM.  
R
espectfully submitted, 
/s/ Edmund Caulfield  
Edmund Caulfield, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted -  2/28/2024 
#0224-07: AUTHORIZATION OF AWARD OF CONTRACT GDC-24-005-HTP FOR THE 
PERFORMANCE OF PROFESSIONAL SERVICES BY  A  DELIVERY PARTNER TO SUPPORT 
THE HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT.    
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) and throughout 
the Northeast Corridor (the "NEC"), New Jersey and New York created the Gateway 
Development Commission ("GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state 
codified 
as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 
32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any 
lawful purpose which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, 
the state of New York, with any local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, 
department, commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state 
a
gency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more 
of them." 2019 N
.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part 
any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
In December of 2022, a Request for Qualifications was issued by GDC, through the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (“Amtrak”) as the procuring entity acting on GDC’s 
behalf, soliciting 
Statements of Qualifications (“ SOQ”) from entities interested in providing 
professional, technical, construction management, project management and other support 
services (“Delivery Partner”) to support the Hudson Tunnel Pro ject (“HTP”).  SOQs were 
submitted a
nd on May 22, 2023 GDC identified a shortlist of three (3) qualified teams that would 
receive an invitation to submit a proposal in response to a Request for Proposals for Delivery 
Partner (“RFP”) in connection with the HTP.  On August 15, 2023, a federally compliant RFP was 
issued to 
the three (3) short-listed firms to act as Delivery Partner to support the HTP. Proposals 
were received from three (3) responsive and responsible firms: Joint Venture of Bechtel-HN TB, 
Hudson Delivery Partnership (comprised of Atkins North America, Inc., Arup US Inc., The 
McK
issack Group, Inc.), and MPA Delivery Partners (comprised of Mace North America Limited, 
Parsons Transportation Group of New York, Inc., and Arcadis of New York, Inc.). The proposals 
were reviewed by an evaluation panel consisting of technical experts and representatives of 
GDC, the State of New York, NJ TRANSIT, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey 
(“PANYNJ”), and Amtrak (collectively, “Evaluation Panel”). The Evaluation Panel selected MPA 
Delivery Partners through a competitive evaluation; thereafter GDC undertook the ne gotiation 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

of price to enter into a master services agreement for Delivery Partner services for the HTP 
(referred to as “Contract GDC-24-005-HTP”).  
In addition to Contract GDC-24 -005-HTP, GDC, in coordination with NJ TRANSIT, PANYNJ 
and Amtrak, also negotiated task orders 001, 002, 003, 004A, 005, 006, 007, 008 and 009 to 
begin upon issuance of a notice to proceed anticipated to be in March of 2024  (“Phase A”) to 
support the GDC and its Supporting or Executing Partners (“SEP”) in the delivery of the HTP. Task 
orders 001, 002, 003, 006, 007, and 008 will be completed by September 1, 2024, and task orders 
005, 009 and 004A will be completed January 31, 2025, December 31, 2026 and September 30, 
2027, respectively.  Phase B task orders  will be subject to approval by the GDC Board of 
Commissioners.  The initial term of Contract GDC -24-005-HTP is 6 years  ending in 2030 , and 
thereafter, GDC has the option to extend the term for up to three (3) three-year 
extensions which, if elected, will end the term in 2039. 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution wa s adopted, with 
Co-Chair Glen, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice-Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas,
Commissione
r Bauer, Commissioner Rosen and Commissi oner Dominguez voting 
in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to enter into Contract 
GDC24-005-HTP with MPA Delivery Partners.  
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to execute Task Orders 
#001, #002, #003, #004(A), #005, #006, #007, #008 and #009 of Contract GDC -24-005-HTP 
(collectively, “Phase A Task Orders”) , for an amount not to exceed $26,823,778  ("Phase A 
Contract Price”) and further authorizing an additional amount equal to five percent (5%) of the 
Phase A Contract Price for contingencies , in each case subject to the availability of funds , and 
to take any and all  other actions consistent with this resolution, and to make, execute, and 
deliver in the name and on behalf of GDC, Contract GDC-24-005-HTP, and to take all other steps 
necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of Contract GDC-24-005-HTP. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized, within the total 
authorized amount for Phase A Task Orders of  Contract GDC-24-005-HTP, in accordance with 
the terms of this Resolution, to take all procurement actions necessary to effectuate the Phase 
A Task Orders that are the subject of Contract GDC-24-005-HTP, and take any other actions that 
may be required  to effectuate and enforce the terms and conditions of Contract GDC-24-005-
HTP, including the terms and conditions of the Phase A Task Orders. 
Adopted - 2/28/24 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
New Jersey and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor, the State of New Jersey (“New 
Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) created the Gateway Development Commission 
("GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the Gateway 
Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, 
the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers GDC  to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful 
purpose which the commission ers determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government 
thereof, the state of New York, with any local government thereof, with any agency,  
instrumentality, department, commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, 
any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any 
one or more of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36 -8(e). 
The GDC Act also empowers GDC  to “enter into loan agreements and otherwise borrow 
funds or incur indebtedness or other future payment obligations for any corporate purpose, 
including to effectuate full funding” of the  Hudson Tunnel P roject (“HTP”).  2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 
108, Section 2(7)(j) and N.J.S.A. 32:36-8.j. 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
On February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger Corporation, 
and GDC entered into an agreement (the “PDA”) in order to establish their respective roles and 
responsibilities with respect to the funding, financing, right- of-way acquisition, procurement, 
delivery, and operation of the HTP. 
The PDA provides that GDC will enter into funding agreements to facilitate the local 
funding partners’ commitments to fund a portion of the delivery of the HTP.  
GDC intends to enter into one or more loan agreements with the United States 
Department of Transportation (“USDOT”), an agency of the United States of America, acting by 
and through the Executive Director of the Build America Bureau (“BAB”) under the Railroad 
Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (“RRIF”) program administered by the USDOT  (the 
“RRIF Loan Agreements”).  
Adopted - 2/28/2024 
#0224-08: AUTHORIZ ATION TO ENTER INTO , EXECUTE AND AMEND RRIF LOCAL FUNDING 
AGREEMENTS WITH N EW JERSEY TRANSIT CORPORATION, THE PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW 
YORK AND NEW JERSEY AND THE STATE OF NEW YORK 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Agreement (RRIF Loan), and (iii) New York pursuant to a Service Contract ( each, a “ RRIF Local 
Funding Agreement”). 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Co-Chair 
Glen, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice-Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Bauer, 
Commissioner Rosen and Commissioner Dominguez voting in favor:  
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to enter into each RRIF Local 
Funding Agreement. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all actions 
consistent with this Resolution, and is directed to finalize the terms of each RRIF Local Funding 
Agreement and make, execute, and deliver in the name of and on behalf of GDC each RRIF Local 
Funding Agreement once finalized, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms 
and conditions of each RRIF Local Funding Agreement once executed. 
RESOLVED, that,  the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all actions 
to make, execute, and deliver in the name of and on behalf of GDC amendments to each RRIF  
Local Funding Agreement as may be necessary or required for the delivery of the HTP, subject to 
the concurrence of BAB, NJ TRANSIT, PANYNJ and/or New York , as applicable, on the content of 
such amendments, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms and conditions 
of amendments to each RRIF Local Funding Agreement. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer  and applicable staff will report back to 
the GDC Board of Commissioners upon execution of all RRIF Local Funding Agreements or any 
amendments thereto. 
Adopted - 2/28/24 
The RRIF Loan Agreements will be supported by back-to-back payments made pursuant 
to the following agreements between each respective local funding partner and GDC: (i) PANYNJ 
pursuant to an HTP RRIF Loan Funding Agreement, (ii) NJ TRANSIT pursuant to an HTP  Funding 