 
G
ateway Development Commission 
Special Meeting of the Board  
Hybrid Held Virtually and In-Person 
May 6, 2024 
MINUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Janine Bauer 
Amy Rosen 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
Marie Therese Dominguez 
AMTRAK 
Anthony R. Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. Call to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 2:00 PM.
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk advised that public comments were being solicited both in -person and
virtually, and audio of the meeting was being live-streamed from the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and 
that a form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway website for those who wished to 
submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting Secretary Caulfield conducted a roll call and confirmed that all Commissioners were 
present, and there was a quorum.  
Acting Secretary Caulfield stated that adequate notice of today’s special  public meeting of the 
Board of Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s 
enabling legislation. 
II. R
eport on Minutes of the April 16, 2024 Meeting
Acting Secretary Caulfield reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of April 16, 2024
were delivered in electronic form  by Acting Secretary Caulfield to the Governors of New York and New 
Jersey on April 16, 2024 and that the time for action by the Governors of New York and New Jersey expired 
at midnight on April 30, 2024, at which time the actions recorded in the Minutes went into full force and 
effect. 
III. G ateway Program Update
The Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Kris Kolluri,  provided update s on the project labo r
ag
reement for the Palisades Tunnel project within the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”).  He summarized 
the Palisades Tunnel project and the PLA, and recommended approval of the PLA by the Board.   
Following the presentation, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk thanked Mr. Kolluri for the update, and there 
were no questions or comments from the Board.  
IV. P ublic Comments

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2
 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk announced that the Commission had solicited virtual comments from the 
public in advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for soliciting these comments 
was posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout today’s meeting.  
Th
ere were three (3) written comments received by 5:00 PM on May 5, 2024: 
Commenter Topic 
Edward Funches , Inclusion Marketing and 
Advertisement Group Inc. 
Employment opportunities for persons with 
disabilities, formerly incarcerated and homeless 
Benjamin Guy, Franklin Grace Resource Center Hudson Tunnel Project schedule and 
procurements 
Allan Hunte , Grant Engineering & Construction 
Group, LLC 
DBE Program 
C
o-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that all written comments received by 5:00 p.m. on May 5, 2024 
before the meeting were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and would 
be filed in the Commission’s records after the meeting. Gateway did not receive any additional written 
comments on the day of the Board Meeting.  
T
he following individuals provided in- person public comments during the May 6, 2024 Board 
Meeting: 
Commenter Topic 
Carl Evans, KEI Marketing and Consulting DBE Program and Palisades PLA 
Edward Funches , Inclusion Marketing and 
Advertisement Group Inc. 
Employment opportunities for persons with 
disabilities, formerly incarcerated and homeless 
Vincent Torres, Positive Workforce, Inc. Community Benefits Agreement  to support local 
employment opportunities 
Ulely Martinez Community Benefits Agreement 
Michael Palmer, Port of Inclusion Employment opportunities for persons who are 
veterans and formerly incarcerated 
Zahed Ismail, ZIE Engineering DBE Program 
V. Action Items
Item #0524-01:  Authorization of Hudson Tunnel Project – Palisades Tunnel Project –
Authorization to Execute Labor Agreement
Th
e Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not
have any comments on this Resolution. Commissioner Dominguez made a motion, and Commissioner 
Barbas seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
VI. Executive Session
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk stated that the Board would enter Executive Session to discuss contract
negotiations, personnel matters, and matters in which the release of information could impair a right to 
receive funds from the United States. Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Board would reconvene the 
public meeting for purposes of adjournment. Co-Chair Grewal-Virk motioned to enter into Executive 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

3
 
 
Session, Co-Chair Rosen seconded the motion, and the motion was unanimously adopted at 
approximately 2:20 PM. 
VII. Adjournment
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk reconvened the public session meeting at approximately 3:00 PM. Acting
Secretary Caulfield indicated that there was a quorum of Commissioners present. Co -Chair Grewal-Virk 
noted that there was no further business to conduct, and then motioned to adjourn the meeting. Upon 
the motion being duly made by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk and seconded by Co-Chair Glen, the meeting was 
adjourned at approximately 3:00 PM.  
R
espectfully submitted, 
/s/ Edmund Caulfield 
Edmund Caulfield, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

1 
Adopted –5/06/24 
#0524-01: HUDSON TU NNEL P ROJECT – PALISADES TUNNEL PROJECT – AUTHORIZATION TO 
EXECUTE LABOR AGREEMENT  
The Hudson Tunnel Project will improve resiliency, reliability, and redundancy for the 
busiest section of the Northeast Corridor (“NEC”) – the busiest passenger rail line in the United 
States. The Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”), for funding and financing purposes, includes the 
construction of a new Hudson River Tunnel between New York and New Jersey, and the 
rehabilitation of the existing 112-year-old North River Tunnel under the Hudson River.  
The Palisades Tunnel Project (“Palisades”) consists of two separate tunnels, each 
approximately 5,100-feet long and with an inside diameter of 25 feet 2 inches, to be excavated 
by tunnel boring machines, located in North Bergen, Union City, Weehawken and Hoboken, New 
Jersey.  A  precast concrete segmental tunnel lining system is required for six cross passages 
between the tunnel portal located in North Bergen, NJ and leading to the Hoboken Shaft.  The 
Hoboken Shaft is approximately 121 feet in diameter and approximately 120 feet in depth with 
a concrete slurry wall constructed by slurry trench method with the wall socketed into rock. The 
Palisades Project involves only the initial shaft construction to support the mining of the tunnels 
and therefore does not include the final lining of the Hoboken Shaft which shall be constructed 
pursuant to a separate bid package.  
The Gateway Development Commission (the “Commission”) is a public and government 
sponsored authority established by bi -state legislation (the “GDC Act”) in July 2019. The 
Commission is serving as the NEPA Project Sponsor and federal grant recipient for the Hudson 
Tunnel Project.  
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to “enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry 
out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose 
which the commissioners determine will 
Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with 
the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New 
York, with any local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, 
commission or authority of a ny one or more of the foregoing, any bi- state agency, Amtrak, any 
individual or private firm, entity or corpora tion, or with any one or more of them.” 2019 N.Y. 
Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e).  
The GDC Act further empowers the Commission to “utilize the existing labor force in the 
states and foster labor harmony  in a llowing for adoption of efficient la bor work rules a nd 
practices during construction of the Project.” 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Secti on 7(q); N.J.S.A. § 
32:36-8(q).  
A project labor agreement is a pre-hire collective bargaining agreement that establishes 
the terms and conditions of employment for a project.   
The Project Development Agreement for the Hudson Tunnel Project (the “PDA”) , a 
foundational agreement between the States of New Jersey and Ne w York, Amtrak, and the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2 
Adopted –5/06/24
Commission regarding delivery of the Hudson Tunnel Project, provides, at Article IV, Section 
4.01(b), that the Commission shall “engage with labor constituencies and lead the development 
and negotiation of applicable project labor agreement(s)” for the Hudson Tunnel Project.  
The Commission has engaged, via its outside counsel, a consultant to conduct a study to 
determine that it is in  the Commission’s interest to negotiate and execute a project labor 
agreement for Palisades based on considerations such as the impact of delay, the possibility of 
cost savings advantages, and the promotion of labor harmony which are best met by requiring a 
project labor agreement.   The labor study recommends that the Commission negotiate and 
execute a project labor agreement for Palisades.  
Based on the conclusions in this study, the Commission and the unions representing the 
trades who will perform work on Palisades (the “Parties”) have engaged in negotiations regarding 
the terms and conditions of employment for Palisades.   
The terms the Parties have negotiated are memorialized in the Project Labor Agreement 
between the Commission and the Hudson County Building and Construction Trades Council, AFL-
CIO (the “BTC”) on behalf of itself and the signatory local unions, Asbestos Workers, Local 32; 
Boilermakers, Local 28; Bricklayers and Allied Crafts Local 4; Carpenters, Local 253; Dockbuilders, 
Local 1456; Electrical Workers, Local 164; Elevator Workers, Local 1; Heavy Construction 
Laborers, Local 472; Ironworkers, Local 11; Laborers, Local 3 ; Millwrights, Local 715 ; Operating 
Engineers, Local 825 ; Operative Plasterers & Cement Masons, Local 29 ; Painters and Allied 
Trades, District Council 21 ; Pipefitters, Loca l 274 ; Plumbers, Local 24 ; Roofers, Local 8 ; Sheet 
Metal Worke rs, Local 25 ; Sprinkler Fitters, Local 696 ; Teamsters, Loca l 560  and 
Tile/Marble/Terrazzo Workers, Local 7 which is attached hereto as “Exhibit A” and in the Letter 
Agreement regarding Subterranean Work to be performed by members of the Heavy and General 
Laborers Local 472 which is attached hereto as “Exhibit B” (collectively, the “Labor 
Agreement”). 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolutions were adopted, with Co-Chair 
Glen, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice-Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Bauer, 
Commissioner Rosen and Commissioner Dominguez voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, or his designee,  is authorized to take 
any and all actions consistent with this resolution, and to make, execute and deliver in the name 
and on behalf of GDC the attached Labor Agreement , including finalizing the terms of any 
Exhibits to the Labor Agreement, and to take all other ste ps necessary to comply with the 
terms and conditions of the Labor Agreement, including enforcing the terms of the Labor 
Agreement as may be required by among other things initiating arbitration procedures as 
specified in the Labor Agreement.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
3 
E
XHIBIT A 
P
ROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT 
COVERING THE 
PALISADES TUNNEL PROJECT IN NORTH BERGEN, UNION CITY, 
WEEHAWKEN AND HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY  
BETWEEN 
GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION 
AND 
HUDSON COUNTY BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION TRADES COUNCIL, AFL-CIO (THE “BTC”) AND 
THE SIGNATORY LOCAL UNIONS: ASBESTOS WORKERS, LOCAL 32; BOILERMAKERS, LOCAL 28; 
BRICKLAYERS AND ALLIED CRAFTS. LOCAL 4; CARPENTERS, LOCAL 253; DOCKBUILDERS, LOCAL 
1456; ELECTRICAL WORKERS, LOCAL 164; ELEVATOR WORKERS, LOCAL 1; HEAVY 
CONSTRUCTION LABORERS, LOCAL 472; IRONWORKERS, LOCAL 11; LABORERS, LOCAL 3; 
MILLWRIGHTS, LOCAL 715; OPERATING ENGINEERS, LOCAL 825; OPERATIVE PLASTERERS & 
CEMENT MASONS, LOCAL 29; PAINTERS AND ALLIED TRADES, DISTRICT COUNCIL 21; 
PIPEFITTERS, LOCAL 274; PLUMBERS, LOCAL 24; ROOFERS, LOCAL 8; SHEET METAL WORKERS, 
LOCAL 25; SPRINKLER FITTERS, LOCAL 696; TEAMSTERS, LOCAL 560 AND 
TILE/MARBLE/TERRAZZO WORKERS, LOCAL 7 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
1 
 
 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT 
COVERING THE 
PALISADES TUNNEL PROJECT IN NORTH BERGEN, UNION CITY, 
WEEHAWKEN AND HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY  
 
 
ARTICLE 1 - PREAMBLE 
WHEREAS, the Gateway Development Commission (the  “ Owner”) desires to provide  
for the efficient, safe, quality, and timely completion of the construction of the Palisades Tunnel 
Project (the “Project”), which is part of a larger construction plan known as the  Hudson Tunnel 
Project, in a manner designed to afford lower reasonable costs to the Owner, and the Public it 
represents, and the advancement of public policy objectives; 
WHEREAS, this Project Labor Agreement conforms to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 52:38- 
1, et seq. and will foster the achievement of these goals, inter alia by: 
(1) ensuring a reliable source of skilled and experienced labor; 
(2) standardizing the terms and conditions governing the employment of labor on the 
Project; 
(3) permitting wide flexibility in work scheduling and shift hours and times; from those 
which otherwise might obtain; 
(4)  receiving negotiated adjustments as to work rules and staffing requirements from those 
which otherwise might obtain; 
(5) providing comprehensive and standardized mechanisms for the settlement of work 
disputes, including those relating to jurisdiction; 
(6) avoiding the costly delays of potential strikes, slowdowns, walkouts, picketing and 
other disruptions arising from work disputes, and promote labor harmony and peace for 
the duration of the Project. 
(7) ensuring compliance with applicable requirements for participation of Disadvantaged 
Business Enterprises (“DBEs”) and furthering public policy objectives as to improved 
employment opportunities for minorities, women and the economically disadvantaged 
in the construction industry; and 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
2 
 
(8) expediting the construction process; and 
   
WHEREAS, the signatory Unions desire the stability, security and work opportunities 
afforded by a Project Labor Agreement; and 
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to maximize Project safety conditions for both workers 
and the public. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties enter into this Project Labor Agreement: 
 
 
SECTION 1. PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT 
This is a Project Labor Agreement (“Agreement”) entered into by and between the Owner and by 
the Hudson County Building and Construction Trades Council, AFL -CIO (the “BTC”) on behalf 
of itself and its affiliates and members and the signatory local unions (the “Unions”).   This 
Agreement shall be effective upon its execution by the Owner and the BTC. 
ARTICLE 2 - GENERAL CONDITIONS 
 
SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS 
Throughout this Agreement, the Gateway Development Commission is referenced as the “Owner” 
or “GDC”; the Hudson County  Building and Construction Trades Council, AFL-CIO is referenced 
as the BTC; the term “Contractor(s)” shall include the Contractor awarded a prime contract for the 
Project (the “Prime Contractor”) , and all signatory contractors, and their subcontractors of 
whatever tier, engaged in on-site Project construction work within the scope of this Agreement as 
defined in Article 3;  and the work covered by this Agreement (as defined in Article 3) is referred 
to as the “Project”; the term “Subterranean Project work” shall refer to all Project work performed 
between the Hudson Tunnel Rock Portal and the Hoboken Shaft (as those locations are described 
in Article 3 and Schedule A) including but not limited to all tunneling operations relating to  shafts,  
excavation, dewatering, shoring, forming, pouring, placing and finishing of concrete and grout and 
the reinforcement of same, the operation of drilling machines, drilling and blastin g, the laying of 
all pipe and conduit, and other related work; the term “Surface Project work”  shall refer to the 
Project work  that is not Subterranean  Project work; the term “Schedule A Union” shall refer to a 
Union eligible for an  assignment to perform Subterranean Project work; the term “Schedule B 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
3 
 
Union” shall refer to a Union eligible for an  assignment to perform Surface  Project Work; the 
Schedule A and Schedule B Unions and the BTC are referred to singularly and collectively as “the 
Union(s),” except  where specific reference is made to “Local Unions”; the term “Schedule A 
Agreement” shall refer to the agreement s identified in Schedule A of this Agreement; the term 
“Schedule B Agreement” shall refer to the agreements identified in Schedule B of this Agreement; 
the term “Schedule A/B Agreements” shall refer collectively to the agreements identified in 
Schedule A and Schedule B of this Agreement.  
SECTION 2. CONDITIONS FOR AGREEMENT TO BECOME EFFECTIVE 
This Agreement shall not become effective unless executed by the BTC and the Owner and will 
remain in effect until Project Completion but no later than January 1, 2040. Project Completion is 
the level of completion of  the Project or a system/facility of the P roject at which: (a) the Prime 
Contractor has completed the work of its contract with the Owner for the Project, including all 
customary finish work, in accordance with applicable contract documents (except for Punch List 
items), and in accordance with the requirements of any permits, licenses and certificates of 
compliance or occupancy required by laws or by any governmental authority; (b) there are no 
material or substantial variations in the work from the applicable contract requirements; (c) the 
work is fit for its intended purpose; and (d) where required, the work has been substantially tested 
by the Prime Contractor, or by others as required, and has passed all test requirements, whichever 
occurs later. As the contracts which comprise the Project work a re completed and accepted, the 
Agreement shall not have further force or effect on such items or areas except where inspections, 
additions, repairs, modifications, check-out and/or warranty work are assigned in writing (copy to 
Local Union involved) by the Prime Contractor for performance under the terms of this Agreement. 
 
SECTION 3. ENTITIES BOUND & ADMINISTRATION OF AGREEMENT 
This Agreement shall be binding on all signatory Unions and Contractors performing Project work, 
including site preparation and staging areas, as defined in Article 3. The Contractors shall include 
in any subcontract that they let, for performance during the term of this Agreement, a requirement 
that their subcontractors, of whatever tier, become signatory and bound by this Agreement with 
respect to subcontracted work performed within the scope of Article 3 by executing the Letter of 
Assent attached as Exhi bit 3. This Agreement shall be administered by the  Owner and by the 
Prime Contractor on behalf of all Contractors. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
4 
 
 
SECTION 4. SUPREMACY CLAUSE 
A. This Agreement, together with the local Collective Bargaining Agreements appended hereto 
and referred to herein in Schedule A and Schedule B, represent the complete understanding of 
all signatories and supersedes any national agreement, local agreement or other collective 
bargaining agreement of any type which would otherwise apply to this Project, in whole or in 
part, except for all work performed under the NTD Articles of Agreement, the National 
Stack/Chimney Agreement, the National Cooling Tower Agreement, all instrument calibration 
work and loop checking shall be performed under the terms of the UA/IBEW Joint National 
Agreement for Instrument and Control Systems Technicians, and the National Agreement of 
the International Union of Elevator Constructors, with the exception of Article 7, 9 and 10 of 
this Project Agreement, which shall apply to such work.  Where a subject covered by the 
provisions, of this Agreement is also covered by a  Schedule A/B Agreements, the provisions 
of this Agreement shall prevail. It is further understood that neither the Prime Contractor nor 
any Contractor shall be required to sign any
 other agreement as a condition of performing 
work on this Project, other than the Letter of Assent attached hereto as Exhibit 3.   No 
practice, understanding or agreement between a Contractor and  a Local Union, which is not 
explicitly set forth in this Agreement, shall be binding on this Project unless endorsed in 
writing by the Prime Contractor. 
 
SECTION 5. LIABILITY 
The liability of any Contractor and the liability of any Union under this Agreement shall be several 
and not joint. The Owner shall not be liable for any violations of this Agreement.   The Prime 
Contractor and any Contractor shall not be liable for any violations of this Agreement by any other 
Contractor and the BTC and Local Unions shall not be liable for any violations of this Agreement 
by any other Union. 
 
SECTION 6. THE OWNER AND THE PRIME CONTRACTOR 
The Owner and the Prime Contractor shall  require in their bid specifications for all work within 
the scope of Article 3 that all successful bidders, and their subcontractors of whatever tier, become 
bound by, and signatory to, this Agreement. The Owner shall not be liable in any manner under 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
5 
 
this Agreement. It is understood that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as limiting the 
sole discretion of the Owner and the Prime Contractor in determining which Contractors shall be 
awarded contracts for Project work.  It is further understood that the Owner  and the Prime 
Contractor have sole discretion at any time to terminate, delay or suspend the work, in whole or 
part, on this Project. 
 
SECTION 7.  ASSIGNMENT 
The terms and conditions of this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the 
Parties hereto and their successors, assigns and legal representatives and to the Prime Contractor, 
and Contractors performing Project work.  The Prime Contractor may freely assign its rights and 
obligations under this Agreement to an affiliated entity. Should the Prime Contractor desire to 
assign its rights and obligations under this Agreement to any entity other than an affiliated entity, 
it may do so with the written consent of the BTC, which consent shall not be unreasonably 
withheld, conditioned or delayed. 
 
SECTION 8. AVAILABILITY AND APPLICABILITY TO ALL SUCCESSFUL 
BIDDERS 
The Unions agree that this Agreement will be made available to, and will fully apply to any 
successful bidder for Project work who becomes signatory thereto, without regard to whether that 
successful bidder performs work at other sites on either a union or non- union basis and without 
regard to whether employees of such successful bidder are, or are not, members of any unions.  
This Agreement shall not apply to the work of any Contractor or  Prime Contractor, which is 
performed at any location other than a Project site, as defined in Article 3, Section 1. 
ARTICLE 3 - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT 
The Project work covered by this Project Labor Agreement shall be as defined and limited by the 
following sections of this Article. 
SECTION 1: THE WORK 
This Agreement shall apply to all of the on- site  construction work performed for the Project,  
including site preparation and staging areas, demolition and hazardous waste remediation, and all 
components or structures pre-fabricated to specifications, excluding pre -cast concrete segmented 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
6 
 
tunnel linings, including all pre -fabricated materials and operations  covered by the New Jersey 
Prevailing Wage Act and the Davis Bacon and Related Acts, performed for the Owner’s Palisades 
Tunnel  project construction: 
The scope of on- site Subterranean Project work is confined to the Project work as set forth in 
Schedule A,   as contained in  the final construction contract  between the Owner and  the Prime 
Contractor. The scope of on- site Surface work is confined to the  Project work as set forth in 
Schedule B. The scope of work in Schedule A and/or B may be amended in accordance with any 
agreement between the Owner and the Prime Contractor. 
 
SECTION 2. EXCLUDED EMPLOYEES 
The following persons are not subject to the provisions of this Agreement, even though performing 
work on the Project: 
A. Superintendents, supervisors (excluding superintendents and general 
supervisors and forepersons specifically covered by a craft's Schedule A/B 
Agreements), engineers, inspectors and testers (excluding divers specifically 
covered by a craft’s Schedule A/B A greements), quality control/assurance 
personnel, timekeepers, mail carriers, clerks, office workers, messengers, 
guards, non- manual employees, and all professional, engineering, 
administrative and management persons, technical advisors,  and safety 
advisors; 
 
B. Employees of the Owner or any State, bi-state, or Federal agency, authority or 
entity, including, but not limited to, Amtrak, N.J. Transit, the New Jersey 
Turnpike Authority, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, and their 
successors, and employees of any municipality or other public employer; 
 
C. Employees and entities who are engaged in off-site manufacture, modifications, 
repair, maintenance, assembly, painting, handling or fabrication of project 
components, materials, equipment or machinery, unless such offsite operations 
are covered by the New Jersey Prevailing Wage Act  or the Davis Bacon Act  
(for example,  by being dedicated exclusively to the performance of the public 
works contract or building project and are adjacent to the site of work), or who 
are  involved in deliveries to and from the Project site, excepting local deliveries 
of all major construction materials including fill, ready mix  concrete and 
cement and  asphalt  which are covered by this Agreement. Provided, however, 
local deliveries of ready mix, concrete, cement and asphalt shall not be 
contracted except to a subcontractor who pays wages and benefits not less than 
the economic equivalent of the wages and benefits set forth in 
Schedule  A/B 
Agreements;  
 
D. Employees of the Prime Contractor and Contractors , excepting those 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
7 
 
performing manual, on- site construction labor who will be covered by this 
Agreement; 
 
E. Employees engaged in on-site or off-site equipment warranty work. 
F. Employees engaged in geophysical testing (whether land or water) other than 
boring for core samples; 
G. Employees engaged in laboratory or specialty testing or inspections; 
H. Employees engaged in ancillary Project work performed by third parties such 
as electric utilities, gas utilities, telephone utility companies, and railroads and 
workers engaged in servicing chemical toilets and sanitary holding tanks. 
 
SECTION 3. NON-APPLICATION TO CERTAIN ENTITIES 
This Agreement shall not apply to the parents, affiliates, subsidiaries, or other joint or sole ventures 
of any Contractor or of Prime Contractor, which do not perform work at this Project. It is agreed, 
for the purposes of this Agreement only, that this Agreement does not have the effect of creating 
any joint employment, single employer or alter ego status among the Owner, the Prime Contractor 
and/or any Contractor. The Agreement shall further not apply to the Owner or any other federal, 
bi-state, state or county or municipal agency, authority, or other public entity and nothing 
contained herein shall be construed to prohibit or restrict the Owner or its employees or any other 
federal, bi-state, state, or county agency,  authority, or other municipal or public  entity and its 
employees from performing on or off-site work related to the Project.  
SECTION 4.  TEMPORARY SERVICES 
Temporary services for equipment or machinery that is temporary or has not been accepted by the 
Owner shall be provided pursuant to the applicable Trade’s Schedule A/B . There shall be no 
requirement for temporary services at the Project site, where no Contractor employees are 
scheduled,  solely because: (a) safety lights are left on; or (b) equipment is charging.   
ARTICLE 4 – UNION RECOGNITION AND EMPLOYMENT 
SECTION 1. PRE-HIRE RECOGNITION 
The Contractors recognize the signatory Unions as the sole and exclusive bargaining 
representatives of all craft employees who are performing on-site Project work within the scope of 
this Agreement as defined in Article 3. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
8 
 
SECTION 2. UNION REFERRAL 
A. The Contractors agree to hire Project, craft employees covered by this Agreement 
through the job referral systems and hiring halls (where the referrals meet the 
qualifications set forth in items 1,2,  3 and 4 subparagraph B) established in the 
Local Unions’ area collective bargaining agreements (attached as Schedule A/B to 
this Agreement ), subject to the goals of any applicable local ordinances or 
agreements pertaining to hiring and apprenticeship goals for minorities, women , 
residents of disadvantaged commu nities, and local residents. ). Notwithstanding  
this, the Contractors shall have sole rights to determine the competency of all 
referrals; the number of employees required (except with regard to pile driving and 
cranes, subject to mutual agreement between the Contractor and the Local Union.); 
the selection of employees to be laid -off (subject to the applicable procedures in 
Schedule A/B for permanent  and/or  temporary layoffs and except as provided in 
Article 5, Section 3); and the sole right to reject any applicant referred by a Local 
Union, (subject to the show-up payments required in any applicable Schedule A/B 
Agreements).  In the event that a Local Union is unable to fill any request for 
qualified employees within a 48- hour period after such requisition is made by the 
Contractor (Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted), the Contractor may 
employ qualified applicants from another competent source.  In the event that the 
Local Union does not have a job referral system, the Contractor shall give the Local 
Union first preference to refer applicants, subject to the other provisions of this 
Article. The Contractor shall notify the Local Union of the craft employees 
performing Project work hired within its jurisdiction from any source other than 
referral by the Union. 
B. A Contractor may request by name, and the Local will honor, referral of persons who 
have applied to the Local for Project work and who meet the following qualifications: 
 
(1) possess any license required by NJ law for the Project work to be 
performed; 
 
(2) have worked a total of at least 1000 hours in the Construction craft 
during the prior 3 years; 
(3) were on the Contractor's active payroll for at least 60 out of the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
9 
 
180 calendar days prior to the contract award; 
(4) have demonstrated ability to safely perform the basic function of the 
applicable trade. 
 
Following the employment of the first employee in each craft under Schedule A/B 
or the procedure set forth above in paragraph A, no more than twelve (12%) per 
centum of the employees covered by this Agreement, per Contractor by craft, shall 
be hired through the special provisions above (any fraction shall be rounded to the 
next highest whole number). 
C. A certified disadvantaged business enterprise (“DBEs”), minority/women/veteran-
owned business enterprise MBE/WBE/VBE contractor may request, through the  
Prime Contractor, an exception to, and waiver of, the above per centum limitation 
upon the number of its employees to be hired through the special provision of 
subparagraph B above. This exception is based upon hardship and demonstration 
by the contractor that the Project work would be the contractor’s only job and that 
it would be obliged to lay off qualified minority and female employees in its current 
workforce moving from the last job. The exception and waiver are also conditioned 
upon the employees meeting the qualifications as set forth in Section 2.B above. 
D. Project Work is being funded in part through the United States Department of 
Transportation (“U.S. DOT”). Regulations from the Federal Transit Administration 
(“FTA”) require that the Owner, as a recipient of U.S. DOT funding, set an overall 
disadvantaged business enterprise (“DBEs”) participation goal which has yet to be 
determined. The Owner’s compliance with the DBEs participation goal is subject 
to auditing and monitoring by the FTA. The Unions are committed to utilize best 
efforts to assist the Owner an d the Prime Contractor in reaching its DBEs 
participation goal, once determined, for Project Work, including, without 
limitation, providing the Prime Contractor a full list of DBE contractors that are a 
signatory to their respective Schedule A/B Agreements. 
 
SECTION 3. NON-DISCRIMINATION IN REFERRALS 
The Unions represent that their hiring halls and referral systems will be operated in a non-  
discriminatory manner and in full compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
10 
 
regulations, which require equal employment opportunities. Referrals shall not be affected in any 
way by the rules, regulations, bylaws, constitutional provisions or any other aspects or obligations 
of union membership, policies or requirements and shall be subject to such other conditions as are 
established in this Article. No employment applicant shall be discriminated against by any referral 
system or hiring hall because of the applicant's union membership, or lack thereof. 
 
SECTION 4. WORKFORCE DIVERSITY 
  
The Unions agree and support the importance GDC places on having and maintaining a diverse 
workforce. Furthermore, because the Project is subject to federal affirmative action requirements 
per E.O. 11246, the Prime Contractor, all Contractors and the Unions will comply with such 
affirmative action plans as are developed by the Owner, the Prime Contractor and/or the 
Contractors, and such compliance shall include but is not limited to the following: (1) the parties 
will not discriminate against any employee o r applicant for employment in regards to hiring, 
upgrading, demotion or transfer, recruitment or recruitment advertising, layoff, or termination, 
rates of pay or other forms of compensation, and selection for training, including apprenticeship, 
because of age, race, creed, color, national origin, ancestry, marital status, sex, sexual orientation, 
gender identity, or any other category protected by applicable law; (2) the parties will endeavor to 
include in any solicitations or advertisements for applicants or subcontractors, a notice that all 
qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment, and Contractors and 
subcontractors will receive consideration for work, without regard to age, race, creed, color, 
national origin, ancestry, marital status, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, or any other 
category protected by applicable law; and (3) the parties will comply with any implementing 
requirements that the Federal Transit Administration may issue. 
 The Unions will cooperate with Contractor requests for members of disadvantaged communities 
referrals to meet the requirements of GDC. 
In the event a Union either fails, or is unable, to refer qualified minority or female applicants in 
percentages equaling Project affirmative action goals as set forth in the Owners bid specifications, 
the Contractor may employ qualified minority or female applicants from any  other available 
source as Apprentice Equivalents. Apprentice Equivalents will have completed a  DOL approved 
training program, applied to take a construction Apprenticeship test, and will be paid at not less 
than the applicable equivalent Apprentice rate. With the approval of the Local Administrative 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
11 
 
Committee (LAC), experience in construction related areas may be accepted as meeting the above 
requirements. 
 
SECTION 5. CROSS AND QUALIFIED REFERRALS 
The Unions shall not knowingly refer to a Contractor an employee then employed by another 
Contractor working under this Agreement.  The Local Unions will exert their utmost efforts to 
recruit sufficient numbers of skilled and qualified craft employees to fulfill the requirements of the 
Contractor.   
 
SECTION 6. UNION DUES / WORKING ASSESSMENTS 
The union security provisions contained in the applicable Schedule A/B Agreements, shall not 
apply to the employees covered by this Agreement as for the period of time during which they are 
performing on-site Project work . No employee shall be discriminated against at the Project site 
because of the employee's union membership or lack thereof. In the case of unaffiliated employees 
who have voluntarily executed dues checkoff authorization cards provided in a Schedule A/B 
Agreement, the dues payment can be received by the Unions as a working assessment fee. 
 
SECTION 7. CRAFT FOREPERSONS AND GENERAL FOREPERSONS 
The selection of craft forepersons and/or general forepersons and the number of forepersons 
required shall be solely the responsibility of the Contractor  except where otherwise provided by 
specific provisions of an applicable Schedule A /B.  All forepersons shall take orders exclusively 
from the designated Contractor representatives. Craft foreperson s shall be designated as working 
forepersons at the request of the Contractor, except when an existing local Collective Bargaining 
Agreement prohibits a foreperson from working when the craftsperson he is leading exceed at least 
10 persons. 
 
ARTICLE 5 - UNION REPRESENTATION 
 
SECTION 1. LOCAL UNION REPRESENTATIVE 
Each Local Union representing on-site Project employees shall be entitled to designate in writing 
(copy to Prime Contractor) one representative and/or an alternate,  and the Business Manager, who 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
12 
 
shall be afforded access to the Project. 
 
SECTION 2. STEWARDS 
A. Each Local Union shall have the right to designate a working journey person as a 
Steward and an alternate, and shall notify the Contractor and Prime Contractor 
of the identity of the designated Steward (and alternate) prior to the assumption of 
such duties. Stewards shall not exercise supervisory functions and will receive the 
regular rate of pay for their craft classifications.  There will be no non-working 
Stewards on the Project. The Steward shall be on the site whenever an employee of 
his craft is working. 
B. In addition to their work as an employee, the Steward shall have the right to receive 
complaints or grievances and to discuss and assist in their adjustment with the 
Contractor's appropriate supervisor.  Each Steward shall be concerned with  the 
employees of the Steward's Contractor and, if applicable, subcontractors of that 
Contractor, but not with the employees of any other Contractor.  The Contractor 
will not discriminate against the Steward in the proper performance of Union duties. 
C. The Stewards shall not have the right to determine when overtime shall be worked, 
or who shall work overtime. 
SECTION 3. LAYOFF OF A STEWARD 
Contractors agree to notify the appropriate Union 24 hours prior to the layoff of a Steward, except 
in cases of discipline or discharge for just cause.   If a Steward is protected against layoff by a 
Schedule A /B, such provisions shall be recognized to the extent the Steward possesses the 
necessary qualifications to perform the work required.  In any case in which a Steward is 
discharged or disciplined for just cause, the Local Union involved shall be notified immediately 
by the Contractor. 
ARTICLE 6 - MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS 
 
SECTION 1. RESERVATION OF RIGHTS 
Except as expressly limited by a specific provision of this Agreement, Contractors  retain full and 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
13 
 
exclusive authority for the management of their Project operations including, but not limited to: 
the right to direct the work force, including determination as to the number to be hired and the 
qualifications therefore; the promotion, transfer, layoff of its employees; require compliance with 
the directive of the GDC, including standard restrictions related to security and access to the 
Project site that are equally applicable to GDC, guests, or vendors;
 or the discipline or discharge 
for just cause of its employees; the assignment and schedule of work; implement a timekeeping 
system of their choosing; the promulgation of reasonable Project work rules; and, the requirement, 
timing and number of employees to be utilized for overtime work. No rules, customs, or practices, 
which limit or restrict productivity or efficiency of the individual, as determined by the Contractor, 
Prime Contractor,  and/or joint working efforts with other employees shall be permitted or 
observed. 
SECTION 2. MATERIALS, METHODS & EQUIPMENT 
  
There shall be no limitations or restriction upon the C ontractors' choice of materials, techniques, 
methods, technology or design, or, regardless of source or location, upon the use and installation 
of equipment, machinery, package units, pre -cast, pre-fabricated, pre-finished, or pre-assembled 
materials, tool, or other labor -saving devices. Contractors may, without restriction, install or use 
materials, supplies or equipment regardless of their source. The on-site installation or application 
of such items shall be performed by the craft having jurisdiction over such work; provided, 
however, it is recognized that other personnel having special qualifications may participate, in a 
supervisory capacity, in the installation, check-out or testing of specialized or unusual equipment 
or facilities as designated by the Contractor. Notwithstanding the foregoing statement of contractor 
rights, excluding pre-cast concrete segmented tunnel linings, prefabrication issues relating to work 
traditionally performed at the jo b site shall be governed pursuant to the terms of the applicable 
Schedule A/B. There shall be no restrictions as to work, which is performed off-site for the Project, 
except for 1) offsite operations work covered under the New Jersey Prevailing Wage Act  or the 
Davis Bacon and Related Acts, including  all components or structures pre -fabricated to 
specifications, or 2) done in a fabrication center, tool yard, or batch plant dedicated exclusively to 
the performance of work on the Project, and located adjacent to the “site of work”. With the 
exception of pre-cast concrete segmented tunnel linings, where available locally, offsite operations 
work covered under  the New Jersey Prevailing Wage Act and the Davis Bacon and  Related Acts 
shall be performed within the territorial jurisdiction of the local unions signatory to this 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
14 
 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE 7 - WORK STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS 
 
SECTION 1. NO STRIKES-NO LOCKOUT 
There shall not be strikes, sympathy strikes, picketing, work stoppages, slowdowns, hand billing, 
bannering, demonstrations, walkouts, display or inflatables or other disruptive activity of any kind 
(collectively, “Prohibited Activity”) at the Project for any reason by any Union or employee , 
including, but not limited to, jurisdictional disputes, against any Contractor or employer  while 
performing work at the Project. There shall be no other Union or concerted or employee activity 
which disrupts or interferes with the operation of Project Work, the objectives of GDC,  or the 
existing free flow of traffic in the project area. Failure of any Union or employee to cross any 
picket line established by any union, signatory or non- signatory to this Agreement, or the picket 
or demonstration line of any other organization, at or in proximity to the Project site is a violation 
of this Article.  There shall be no lockout  at the Project by any Contractor.
 Contractors and 
Unions shall take all steps necessary to ensure compliance with this Section 1 and to ensure 
uninterrupted construction and the free flow of traffic in the project area for the duration of this 
Agreement. Should any employees breach this provision, the Unions will use their best effo rts to 
immediately end that breach and return all employees to work. 
SECTION 2. DISCHARGE FOR VIOLATION 
 
A Contractor may discharge any employee violating Section 1, above, and any such employee will 
not be eligible thereafter for referral under this Agreement for a period of at least 100days. 
SECTION 3. NOTIFICATION 
If GDC or a Contractor contends that any Union has violated this Article, it will notify the 
appropriate district or area council of the Local Union involved advising of such fact, with copies 
of the notification to the Local Union and the BTC and any affected Contractor. The district or 
area council, and the BTC shall each instruct, order and otherwise use their best efforts to cause 
the employees, and/or the Local Unions to immediately cease and desist from any violation of this 
Article. A district or area council, or the BTC complying with these obligations shall not be liable 
for the unauthorized acts of a Local Union or its members. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
15 
 
SECTION 4. EXPEDITED ARBITRATION 
Any Contractor or Union alleging a violation of Section 1 of this Article may utilize the expedited 
procedure set forth below (in lieu of, or in addition to, any actions at law or equity)  that may be 
brought. 
A. A party invoking this procedure shall notify the next available of J.J. Pierson 
Jr. Esq., Gary Kendellen and Joseph Licata , who shall serve as arbitrator under 
this expedited procedure. Copies of such notification will be simultaneously 
sent to the alleged violator and, if a Local Union is alleged to be in violation, 
its International, the Owner, Prime Contractor, and the BTC. 
 
B. The Arbitrator shall thereupon, after notice as to time and place to the 
Contractor, the Prime Contractor, the Owner , the Local Union involved, and 
the BTC, hold a hearing within 48 hours of receipt of the notice invoking the 
procedure if it is contended that the violation still exists. The hearing will not, 
however, be scheduled for less than 24 hours after the notice  to the district or 
area council required by Section 3 above. Hearings shall be held at the jobsite 
or at the Newark office of the New Jersey State Board of Mediation, as 
directed by the Arbitrator provided, upon mutual agreement of the parties, the 
hearing may be conducted virtually via Zoom, Microsoft Teams, or similar 
technological platforms. 
C. All notices pursuant to this Article may be by telephone, email, hand delivery, 
or fax, confirmed by overnight delivery, to the arbitrator, Contractor or Union 
involved. The hearing may be held on any day including Saturdays or 
Sundays. The hearing shall be completed in one session, which shall not 
exceed eight hours duration (no more than four hours being allowed to either 
side to present their case, and conduct their cross examination) unless 
otherwise agreed. A failure of any Union or Contractor to attend the hearing 
shall not delay the hearing of evidence by those present or the issuance of an 
award by the Arbitrator. 
D. The sole issue at the hearing shall be whether a violation of Section 1, above, 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
16 
 
occurred. If a violation is found to have occurred, the Arbitrator shall issue a 
Cease and Desist Award restraining such violation and serve copies on the 
Contractor and Union involved. The Arbitrator shall have no authority to 
consider any matter in justification, explanation or mitigation of such violation 
or to award damages, which issue is reserved solely for court proceedings, if 
any. The Award shall be issued in writing within three hours after the close of 
the hearing, and may be issued without an Opinion. If any involved party 
desires an Opinion, one shall be issued within 15 calendar days, but its 
issuance shall not delay compliance with, or enforcement of, the Award. 
E. An Award issued under this procedure may be enforced by any court of 
competent jurisdiction upon the filing of this Agreement together with the 
Award. Notice of the filing of such enforcement proceedings shall be given to 
the Union, GDC, and/or the Contractor(s) involved. In any court proceeding 
to obtain a temporary or preliminary order enforcing the arbitrator's Award as 
issued under this expedited procedure, the involved Union and Contractor 
waive their right to a hearing and agree that such proceedings may be ex parte, 
provided notice is given to opposing counsel. Such agreement does not waive 
any party's right to participate in a hearing for a final court order of 
enforcement or in any contempt proceeding. 
F. Any rights created by statut e or law governing arbitration proceedings which 
are inconsistent with the procedure set forth in this Article, or which interfere 
with compliance thereto, are hereby waived by the Contractors and Unions to 
whom they accrue. 
G. The fees and expenses of the Arbitrator shall be equally divided between the 
involved Contractor and Union. Each party is otherwise responsible for their 
own legal costs and expenses. 
H. GDC is a party in interest in all proceedings arising under this Article and shall 
be sent contemporaneous copies of all notifications required by this Article, 
and, at its option, may participate as a full party in any proceeding initiated 
under this Article. Notwithstanding this provision, no remedy may be issued 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
17 
 
against GDC or the Prime Contractor. 
I. If the Arbitrator determines that a violation has occurred, the respondent 
Union(s) shall, within four (4) hours of receipt of the award, direct all the 
employees they represent on the Project to immediately cease the violation. 
SECTION 5. ARBITRATION OF DISCHARGES FOR VIOLATION 
Procedures contained in Article 9 shall not be applicable to any alleged violation of this Article, 
with the single exception that an employee discharged for violation of Section 1, above, 
may have recourse to the procedures of Article 9 to determine only if the employee did, in fact, 
violate the provisions of Section 1 of this Article; but not for the purpose of modifying the 
discipline imposed where a violation is found to have occurred. 
ARTICLE 8. - LOCAL ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE (LAC) 
SECTION 1. MEETINGS 
The Local Administrative Committee (LAC) will meet on a regular basis to 1) implement and 
oversee the Agreement procedures and initiatives; 2) monitor the effectiveness of the Agreement; 
and 3) identify opportunities to improve efficiency and work execution. 
 
SECTION 2. COMPOSITION 
The LAC will be co -chaired by the President of the Hudson County Building and Construction 
Trades Council or his designee, and designated official of the GDC or the Prime Contractor. It 
will be comprised of representatives of the local unions signatory to this Agreement and 
representatives of the GDC, the Prime Contractor, and other Contractors on the Project. 
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION PROCEDURE 
 
 
SECTION 1. PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTION OF GRIEVANCES 
This Agreement is intended to provide close cooperation between management and labor.  Each 
of the Unions will assign a representative to this Project for such purpose. The Contractors, Unions, 
and the employees, collectively and individually, realize the importance to all parties to maintain 
continuous and uninterrupted performance of the work of the Project, and agree to resolve disputes 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
18 
 
in accordance with the grievance- arbitration provision set forth in this Article. Any  question, 
dispute or claim arising out of, or involving the interpretation or application of this Agreement 
(other than jurisdictional disputes or alleged violations of Article 7, Section 1 , or trust fund 
disputes,  Article 11, Section 2) shall be considered a grievance and shall be resolved pursuant to 
the exclusive procedure of the steps described below; provided, in all cases, that the question, 
dispute or claim arose during the term of this Agreement. 
Step 1: 
 
A. When any employee covered by this Agreement feels aggrieved by a claimed violation 
of this Agreement, the employee shall, through the local union business representative 
or job steward give notice of the claimed violation to the worksite representative of the 
involved Contractor.  To be timely, such notice of the grievance must be given within 
7 calendar days after the act, occurrence, or event giving rise to the grievance, or after 
the act, occurrence or event became known or should have become known to the Union.  
The business repres entative of the local union or the job steward and the worksite 
representative of the involved Contractor shall meet and endeavor to adjust the matter 
within 7 calendar days after timely notice has been given.  If they fail to resolve the 
matter within the prescribed period, the grieving party, may, within 7 calendar days  
thereafter, pursue Step 2 of they grievance procedure by serving the involved 
Contractor and the Prime Contractor with written copies of the grievance setting forth 
a description of the cl aimed violation, the date on which the grievance occurred, the 
provisions of the Agreement alleged to have been violated.  Grievances and disputes 
settled at Step 1 are non-precedential except as to the specific Local Union, employee 
and Contractor directly involved, unless the settlement is accepted in writing, by the 
Prime Contractor, as creating a precedent. 
 
B. Should any signatory to this Agreement have a dispute (excepting jurisdictional 
disputes or alleged violations of Article 7, Section 1) with any other signatory to this 
Agreement and, if after conferring, a settlement is not reached within 7 calendar  days, 
the dispute shall be reduced to writing and proceed to Step 2 in the same manner as 
outlined in subparagraph (a) for the adjustment of employee grievances. 
 
Step 2: 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
19 
 
 
A. The Business Manager or designee of the involved Local Union, together with 
representatives of the BTC, the involved Contractor, and the Prime Contractor shall 
meet in Step 2 within 5 calendar days of the written grievance to arrive at a satisfactory 
settlement. 
 
 
Step 3: 
A. If the grievance shall have been submitted but not resolved in Step 2, any of the 
participating Step 2 entities may, within 14  calendar days after the initial  Step 2 
meeting, submit the grievance in writing (copies to other participants) to    the next 
available of J.J. Pierson Jr. Esq., Gary Kendellen and Joseph Licata , who shall serve 
as arbitrator under this expedited procedure. The Labor Arbitration Rules of the 
American Arbitration Association shall govern the conduct of the arbitration hearing, 
at which all Step 2 participants shall be parties. Hearings shall be held at the jobsite or 
at the Newark office of the New Jersey State Board of Mediation, as directed by the 
Arbitrator; provided, upon mutual agreement of the parties, the hearing may be 
conducted virtually via Zoom, Microsoft Teams, or similar technological platforms. 
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the involved Contractor, 
Local Union and employees and the fees and expenses of such arbitration shall be borne 
equally by the involved Contractor and Local Union. Each party is otherwise 
responsible for their own legal costs and expenses. 
B. Failure of the grieving party to adhere to the time limits set forth in this Article shall 
render the grievance null and void. These time limits may be extended only by written 
consent of the Prime Contractor, involved Contractor and involved Local Union at the 
particular step where the extension is agreed upon.  
C. The Arbitrator’s authority shall be limited to the interpretation and application of the 
terms of this Agreement.  The Arbitrator’s jurisdiction is limited to the scope of this 
Agreement and does not extend to any other Project Labor Agreement(s) for the 
Hudson Tunnel Project, or project scopes. An Arbitration Award rendered under this 
Agreement shall not have precedential effect on any other project. The Arbitrator shall 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
20 
 
have authority to make decisions only on the issues presented to him and shall not have 
the authority to change, add to, delete or modify any provision of this Agreement. 
SECTION 2. LIMITATION AS TO RETROACTIVITY 
No arbitration decision or award may provide retroactivity of any kind exceeding 30 calendar days 
prior to the date of service of the written grievance on the Prime Contractor, the involved 
Contractor, or Local Union as applicable. 
 
SECTION 3. PARTICIPATION BY GDC, PRIME CONTRACTOR AND BTC 
The GDC, the Prime Contractor and the President of the BTC shall be notified by the involved 
Contractor of all actions at Steps 2 and 3 and, at their election, may participate in full in all 
proceedings at these Steps, including Step 3 arbitration.  Notwithstanding this provision, the Owner 
shall not be liable for any violations of this Agreement and the Prime Contractor shall not be liable 
for any violations of this Agreement by any other Contractor.  
ARTICLE 10 - JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES 
SECTION 1. NO DISRUPTIONS 
There will be no Prohibited Activity or other disruptive activity of any kind arising out of any 
jurisdictional dispute.  Pending the resolution of the dispute, the work shall continue uninterrupted 
and as assigned by the Contractor. No jurisdictional dispute shall excuse a violation of Article 7. 
 
SECTION 2. ASSIGNMENT 
A. There shall be a mandatory pre -job markup / assignment meeting prior to the 
commencement of any work. Attending such meeting shall be designated 
representatives of the Union signatories to this Agreement, the  Prime Contractor, 
and the involved Contractors.  These meetings shall be coordinated by the LAC, 
pursuant to Article 8.  Best efforts will be made to schedule the pre-job meeting in 
a timely manner after Notice to Proceed is issued but not later than 30 days prior to 
the start of the Project. 
B. All Project construction work assignments shall be made by the Contractor,   
according to criteria set forth in Section 3, Subsection D 1 -3, provided that 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
21 
 
Subterranean Project Work, as set forth in Articles 2 and 3, will be assigned among 
the Schedule A Unions. Any (i) Schedule A Union disputing assignment of any 
specific Subterranean Project Work to another Schedule A Union, or (ii) any 
Schedule B Union disputing the assignment of any specific Surface Project Work 
to another Schedule B Union must make every effort to invoke the dispute 
resolution procedures of this Article in advance of the commencement of the 
contested work. 
C. When a Contractor has made an assignment of work, he shall continue the 
assignment without alteration unless otherwise directed by an arbitrator or there is 
agreement between the National or International Unions involved. Claims of a 
change of original assignment shall be processed in accordance with Article I of the 
Procedural Rules of the Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes in the 
Construction Industry ("the Plan"). 
D. In the event that a Union involved in the change of original assignment dispute is 
an affiliate of a National or International Union that is not affiliated with the 
Building and Construction Trades Department and does not wish to process a case 
through the Plan, the parties shall mutually select one of the following Arbitrators: 
Arbitrator J.J. Pierson, Arbitrator Paul Greenberg or Arbitrator Richard K. Hanft  
and submit the dispute directly to the Arbitrator. The selected Arbitrator shall 
determine whether the case requires a hearing or may be decided upon written 
submissions. In rendering his determination on whether there has been a change of 
original assignment, the Arbitrator shall be governed by the following: 
1. The contractor who has the responsibility for the performance and installation 
shall make a specific assignment of the work which is included in his contract 
to a particular union(s). For instance, if contractor A subcontracts certain work 
to contractor B, then contractor B shall have the responsibility for making the 
specific assignments for the work included in his contract. If contractor B, in 
turn, shall subcontract certain work to contractor C, then contractor C shall have 
the responsibility for making the specific assignment for the work included in 
his contract. After work has been  so assigned, such assignment will be 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
22 
 
maintained even though the assigning contractor is replaced and such work is 
subcontracted to another contractor. It is a violation of the Agreement for the 
contractor to hold up disputed work or shut down a project because of a 
jurisdictional dispute. 
2. When a contractor has made an assignment of work, he shall continue the 
assignment without alteration unless otherwise directed by an arbitrator or there 
is agreement between the National or International Unions involved.  
3. Unloading and/or handling of materials to stockpile or storage by a trade for the 
convenience of the responsible contractor when his employees are not on the 
job site, or in an emergency situation, shall not be considered to be an original 
assignment to that trade. 
4. Starting of work by a trade without a specific assignment by an authorized 
representative of the responsible contractor shall not be considered an original 
assignment to that trade, provided that the responsible contractor, or his 
authorized representative, promptly, and, in any event, within eight working 
hours following the start of work, takes positive steps to stop further 
unauthorized performance of the work by that trade. 
SECTION 3. PROCEDURE FOR SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 
 
A. Any Union having a jurisdictional dispute with respect to Project work assigned to 
another Union will submit through its International the dispute in writing to the 
Administrator of the Plan within 72 hours and send a copy of the letter to the other 
Union involved, the Contractor involved, the Prime Contractor, the BTC, and the 
district or area councils of the unions involved. Upon receipt of a dispute letter from 
any Union, the Administrator will invoke the procedures set forth in the Plan to resolve 
the jurisdictional dispute. The jurisdictional dispute letter shall contain the information 
described in Article IV of the Procedural Rules of the Plan. 
B. Within five calendar days of receipt of the dispute letter, there shall be a meeting of 
the Prime Contractor, the Contractor involved, the  Local Unions involved and 
designees of the BTC and the district or area councils of the Local Unions involved 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
23 
 
for the purpose of resolving the jurisdictional dispute. 
C. In order to expedite the resolution of jurisdictional disputes, the parties have agreed in 
advance to mutually select one of the following designated Arbitrators: Arbitrator J.  
J. Pierson, Arbitrator Paul Greenberg or Arbitrator Richard K. Hanft to hear all 
unresolved jurisdictional disputes arising under this Agreement. All other rules and 
procedures of the Plan shall be followed. If none of the three Arbitrators is available 
to hear the dispute within the time limits of the Plan, the Plan's arbitrator selection 
process shall be utilized to select another arbitrator. 
D. In the event that a Union involved in the dispute is an affiliate of a National or 
International Union that is not affiliated with the Building and Construction Trades 
Department and does not wish to process a case through the Plan as described in 
paragraphs A -C above, the parties to the dispute shall mutually select one of the 
following Arbitrators: Arbitrator J. J. Pierson, Arbitrator Paul Greenberg or Arbitrator 
Richard K. Hanft  to hear the dispute and shall submit the dispute directly to the 
selected arbitrator. The time limits for submission and processing disputes shall be the 
same as provided elsewhere in this Section. The selected Arbitrator shall schedule the 
hearing within seven business days from the date of submission. If he cannot hear the 
case within the required timef rame, one of the other Arbitrators will be selected to 
hear the case unless all parties to the dispute agree to waive the seven day time limit. 
In rendering his decision, the Arbitrator shall determine: 
1. First whether a previous agreement of record or applicable agreement, including a 
disclaimer agreement, between the National and International Unions to the dispute 
governs; 
2. Only if the Arbitrator finds that the dispute is not covered by an appropriate or 
applicable agreement of record or agreement between the crafts to the dispute, he 
shall then consider the established trade practice in the industry and prevailing 
practice in the locality. Where there is a previous decision of record governing the 
case, the Arbitrator shall give equal weight to such decision of record, unless the 
prevailing practice in the locality in the past ten years favors one craft. In that case, 
the Arbitrator shall base his decision on the prevailing practice in the locality. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
24 
 
Except, that if the Arbitrator finds that a craft has improperly obtained  the 
prevailing practice in the locality through raiding, the undercutting of wages or by 
the use of vertical agreements, the Arbitrator shall rely on the decision of record 
and established trade practice in the industry rather than the prevailing practice in 
the locality. 
3. Only if none of the above criteria is found to exist, the Arbitrator shall then consider 
that because efficiency, cost or continuity and good management are essential 
to the wellbeing of the industry, the interests of the consumer or the past practices 
of the employer shall not be ignored. 
4. The Arbitrator shall set forth the basis for his decision and shall explain his findings 
regarding the applicability of the above criteria. If lower- ranked criteria are relied 
upon, the Arbitrator shall explain why the higher -ranked criteria were not deemed 
applicable. The Arbitrator's decision shall only apply to the job in dispute. 
5. Each party to the arbitration shall bear its own expense for the arbitration and agrees 
that the fees and  expenses of the Arbitrator shall be  borne by the losing party  or 
parties as determined by the Arbitrator. 
6. The Arbitrator shall render a short- form decision within five days of the hearing 
based upon the evidence submitted at the hearing, with a written decision to follow 
within 30 days of the close of hearing. 
7. This Jurisdictional Dispute Resolution Procedure will only apply to work 
performed by Local Unions that represent workers employed on the Project. 
8. Any Local Union involved in a jurisdictional dispute on this Project shall continue 
working in accordance with Section 2 above and without disruption of any kind. 
 
SECTION 4. AWARD 
Any award rendered pursuant to this Article and the Plan shall be final and binding on the disputing 
Local Unions and the involved Contractor on this Project only and may be enforced in accordance 
with the provisions of Article VII of the Plan. Any award rendered pursuant to the alternate 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
25 
 
procedures of this Article shall be final and binding on the disputing Local Unions and the involved 
Contractor on this Project only, and may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction. Such 
award or resolution shall not establish a precedent on any other construction work not covered by 
this Agreement. In all disputes under this Article, the Prime Contractor and the involved 
Contractors shall be considered parties in interest. 
 
SECTION 5. LIMITATIONS 
The Arbitrator shall have no authority to assign work to a double crew, that is, to more employees 
than the minimum required by the Contractor to perform the work involved; nor to assign work 
to employees who are not qualified to perform the work involved; nor to assign work being 
performed by non-union employees to union employees. This does not prohibit the establishment, 
with the agreement of the involved Contractor, of composite crews where more than 1 employee 
is needed for the job. The Arbitrator shall also have no authority to award back pay or other 
damages.  The aforesaid determinations shall decide only to whom the disputed work belongs. 
 
SECTION 6. NO INTERFERENCE WITH WORK 
A. There shall be no interference or interruption of any kind with the work of the Project while 
any jurisdictional dispute is being resolved. The work shall proceed as assigned by the 
Contractor until finally resolved under the applicable procedure of this Article. The award 
shall be confirmed in writing to the involved parties. There shall be no Prohibited Activity 
in protest of any such award. Any claims of a violation of this section shall be submitted 
and processed in accordance with the impediment to job progress provisions of the Plan. 
B. In the event a Union alleged to have engaged in an impediment to job progress is an affiliate 
of a National or International Union that is not affiliated with the Building and Construction 
Trades Department and does not wish to have the impediment to job progress charge 
processed through the Plan, the parties to the dispute shall mutually select one of the three 
Arbitrators designated in this Article to hear the dispute. The selected Arbitrator shall 
schedule the hearing within two business days from the da te of submission. If he cannot 
hear the case within the required timeframe, one of the other Arbitrators shall be selected 
by the parties to hear the case unless all parties to the dispute agree to waive the two day 
time limit. The sole issue at the hearing shall be whether or not a violation of this Section 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
26 
 
has in fact occurred, and the Arbitrator shall have no authority to consider any matter in 
justification, explanation or mitigation of such violation or to award damages. The 
Arbitrator's decision shall be issued in writing within 3 hours after the close of the hearing, 
and may be issued without an opinion. If any party desires an opinion, one shall be issued 
within 15 days, but its issuance shall not delay compliance with, or enforcement of, the 
decision. The Arbitrator may order cessation of the violation of this Section and other 
appropriate relief, and such decision shall be  served on all parties by facsimile upon 
issuance. Each party to the arbitration shall bear  its own expense for the arbitration and 
agrees that the fees and expenses of the Arbitrator  shall be borne by the losing party or 
parties as determined by the Arbitrator. 
ARTICLE 11 - WAGES AND BENEFITS 
 
SECTION 1. CLASSIFICATION AND BASE HOURLY RATE 
 
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be classified in accordance with the work 
performed and paid the base hourly wage rates for those classifications as specified in the attached 
Schedule A/B, as amended and/or modified by this Agreement. Recognizing, however, that special 
conditions may exist or occur on the Project, the parties, by mutual agreement may establish rates 
and/or hours for one or more classifications, which may differ from a Schedule A/B Agreement. 
Parties to such agreements shall be GDC, Prime Contractor, the Contractor involved, the involved 
Local Unions and the BTC.  
SECTION 2. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT FUNDS 
 
A. The Contractors agree to pay contributions on behalf of all employees covered by this 
Agreement to the established employee benefit funds in the amounts designated in the 
appropriate Schedule A /B Agreement. Bona fide jointly trusted fringe benefit plans 
established or negotiated through collective bargaining during the life of this Agreement 
may be added. However, if a defined benefit pension fund covered by the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement has not adopted the building and construction industry 
exemption authorized by subsection (b) of Section 4203 of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974, the Contractor shall not be obligated to hire employees for 
whom contributions are required to be made to  that pension  fund for this Project.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
27 
 
B. The Contractor agrees to be bound by the written terms of the legally established Trust 
Agreements specifying the detailed basis on which contributions are to be paid into, and 
benefits paid out of, such Trust Funds but only with regard to work done on this Project 
and only for those employees on whose behalf this Agreement requires such contributions. 
C. In the event a dispute shall arise between a Contractor, and any Local Union and, or fringe 
benefit trust fund in which a Local Union participates as to the obligation and/or payment 
of fringe benefits provided for under the appropriate collective bargaini ng Schedule A/B 
Agreement, upon proper notice to the Contractor by the appropriate Local Union, an 
amount sufficient to satisfy the amount claimed shall be withheld by Owner from the 
Contractor’s regularly scheduled periodic or final payment as the case may be. The amount 
owed shall be held in escrow in the attorney trust account of the counsel to the applicable 
fringe benefit fund and shall be paid within 30 days  unless an arbitrator or a court of 
competent jurisdiction directs otherwise. Disputes regarding trust funds shall be re solved 
under the applicable Schedule A/B Agreement. 
  
ARTICLE 12 - HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUM PAYMENTS, SHIFTS AND HOLIDAYS 
 
SECTION 1. WORK WEEK AND WORK DAY 
A. The standard work week shall consist of one of the following schedules: 
1) Five-Day Work Week: Monday-Friday, 5 days, 8 hours plus 1/2 hour unpaid 
lunch period each day.  
2)  Four- Day Work Week:  Four- Day Work Week: “4/10s” worked during 
Monday to Friday, ten (10) hours per day at straight time rates, plus one half (½) hour 
unpaid lunch period each day so long as this is consistent with requirements of the 
Project final environmental impact statement, permit requirements and/or applicable 
law. 
3) Saturday and Sunday Work. The Contractor may schedule a Saturday or 
Sunday workday pursuant to the applicable Schedule A/B Agreement  so long as this 
is consistent with requirements of the Project final environmental  impact statement, 
permit requirements and/or applicable law. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
28 
 
B. Make-Up Day. When conditions beyond the control of a Contractor, such as severe 
weather, power failure, fire, or natural disaster, prevent the performance of Project work 
on a regularly scheduled work day, the Contractor may, on a craft-by-craft basis, and except 
where prohibited by statute, schedule another  weekday or Saturday during that calendar 
week in which a workday was lost  and the pay rate shall be as provided in the applicable 
Schedule A/B Agreement. 
C. The Day Shift shall commence between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. and shall end 
between the hours of 2:30 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. for an eight (8) hour day and up to 7:30 p.m. 
for a ten (10) hour day. The Second/Evening shift shall commence between the hours of 2 
p.m. and 8 p.m., unless different times are necessitated by the Owner’s phasing plans on 
specific projects.   The Night Shift shall commence between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 
2:00 a.m., unless different times are necessitated by the Owner’s phasing plans on specific 
projects. Shift differentials shall be payable pursuant to the applicable Schedule A/B  
Agreement.   Starting and quitting times shall occur at the predetermined staging area 
agreed upon by the contractor and the union at a pre job conference  in accordance with 
area practice. 
 
D. Notice - Contractors shall provide not less than 5 days ’ prior notice to the Local Union 
involved as to the work week and work hours schedules to be worked or such lesser notice 
as may be mutually agreed upon. 
 
SECTION 2. OVERTIME 
Overtime pay for hours outside of the standard work week and work day, described in paragraph 
A above, shall be paid in accordance with the applicable Schedule A/B Agreement.  There will 
be no restriction upon the Contractor's scheduling of overtime or the non- discriminatory 
designation of employees who shall be worked. There shall be no pyramiding of overtime pay 
under any circumstances. The Contractor shall have the right to schedule work so as to minimize 
overtime. 
 
SECTION 3. SHIFTS 
A. Flexible Schedules - Scheduling of shift work shall remain flexible in order to meet 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
29 
 
Project schedules and existing Project conditions including the minimization of interference with 
traffic. It is not necessary to work a day shift in order to schedule a second shift.  Shifts must be 
worked a minimum of five consecutive work days, must have prior approval of the Prime 
Contractor and must be scheduled with not less than five work days’ notice to the Local Union. 
B. Second/Third Shift - The second shift (starting between 2 p.m. and 8p.m.) and third 
shifts shall consist of 8 hours work (or 10 hours of work) for an equal number of hours of pay 
which shall be payable  pursuant to the applicable Schedule A/B and exclusive of a 1/2 hour unpaid 
lunch period. 
C. Flexible Starting Times – Shift starting times will be adjusted by the Contractor as 
necessary to fulfill Project requirements subject to the notice requirements of Paragraph A. 
D. It is agreed that when Project circumstances require a deviation from  the above 
shifts, the involved unions, contractors and the Prime Contractor shall adjust the starting times of 
the above shifts or establish shifts which meet the P roject requirements. It is agreed that neither 
party will unreasonably withhold their agreement. 
SECTION 4. HOLIDAYS 
A. Schedule - There shall be 8 recognized holidays on the Project: 
New Year’s Day Labor Day 
Presidents Day Veterans Day 
Memorial Day Thanksgiving Day 
Fourth of July Christmas Day 
* Presidential Election Day shall be observed as a holiday in a general election year. Work 
shall be scheduled on Good Friday pursuant to the craft’s Schedule A /B Agreement. Columbus 
Day and the Friday after Thanksgiving shall be observed as a holiday for Elevator Constructors 
Local 1 only. 
All said holidays shall be observed on the dates designated by New Jersey State Law. In the 
absence of such designations, they shall be observed on the calendar date except those holidays  
which occur on Sunday shall be observed on the following Monday. Holidays falling on Saturday 
are to be observed on the preceding Friday. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
30 
 
B. Payment - Regular holiday pay, if any, and/or premium pay for work performed on 
such a recognized holiday shall be in accordance with the applicable Schedule A/B Agreement. 
C. Exclusivity - No holidays other than those listed in Section 4- A above shall be 
recognized nor observed. 
SECTION 5. REPORTING PAY 
A. Employees who report to the work location pursuant to regular schedule and who are 
not provided with work or whose work is terminated early by a Contractor, for whatever 
reason, shall receive minimum reporting pay  in accordance with the applicable 
Schedule A/B Agreement, if any, not to exceed eight hours at the straight time rate. 
B. When an employee, who has completed their scheduled shift and left the Project site, 
is "called back" to perform special work of a casual, incidental or irregular nature, the 
employee shall receive pay for actual hours worked with a minimum guarantee, as may 
be required by the applicable Schedule A/B Agreement, if any. 
C. When an employee leaves the job or work location of their own volition or is discharged 
for cause or is not working as a result of the Contractor's invocation of Section 7 below, 
they shall be paid only for the actual time worked. 
D. Except as specifically set forth in this Article there shall be no premiums, bonuses, 
hazardous duty, high time or other special payments of any kind. 
E. No craft is guaranteed a 40 -hour workweek on this Project. There shall be no pay for 
time not actually worked  except as specifically set forth in this Agreement or  except 
where specifically provided in an applicable Schedule A/B Agreement.  
 
SECTION 6. PAYMENT OF WAGES 
A. Payday - Payment shall be made by  weekly check.  drawn on a New Jersey bank with 
branches located within commuting distance of the job site.  Paycheck stubs shall contain 
the name and business address of the Contractor, together with an itemization of 
deductions from gross wages. 
B. Termination-Employees who are laid -off or discharged for cause shall be paid in full for 
that which is due them at the time of termination.  The Contractors shall also provide the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
31 
 
employee with a written statement setting forth the date of lay off or discharge. 
 
SECTION 7. EMERGENCY WORK SUSPENSION 
A Contractor or Prime Contractor may, if considered necessary for the protection of life and /or 
safety of employees or others, suspend all or a portion of Project Work. In such instances, 
employees will be paid for actual time worked; provided, however, that when a Contractor requests 
that employees remain at the job site available for work, employees will be paid for "stand -by" 
time at their hourly rate of pay. 
SECTION 8. INJURY/DISABILITY 
An employee who, after commencing work, suffers a work -related injury or disability while 
performing work duties, shall receive no less than eight hours wages for that day.  Further, the 
employee shall be rehired at such time as able to return to duties provided there is still work 
available on the Project for which the employee is qualified and able to perform. 
 
SECTION 9. TIME KEEPING 
A Contractor may utilize electronic or other systems to check employees in and out.  Each 
employee must check in and out. The Contractor will provide adequate facilities for checking in 
and out in an expeditious manner. 
 
SECTION 10. MEAL PERIOD 
A Contractor shall schedule an unpaid period of not more than 1/2 hour duration at the work 
location between the 3
rd and 5th hour of the scheduled shift. A Contractor may, for efficiency of 
operation, establish a schedule which coordinates the meal periods of two or more crafts. If an 
employee is required to work through the meal period, the employee shall be compensated in a 
manner established in the applicable Schedule A/B Agreement. 
 
SECTION 11. BREAK PERIODS 
There will be no rest periods, organized coffee breaks or other non- working time established 
during working hours. Individual coffee containers will be permitted at the  employee's work 
location. Local area practice will prevail for coffee breaks that are not organized. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
32 
 
ARTICLE 13 - APPRENTICES 
 
SECTION 1. RATIOS 
Recognizing the need to maintain continuing supportive programs designed to develop adequate 
numbers of competent workers in the construction industry and to provide craft entry opportunities 
for minorities, women and economically disadvantaged non- minority males, Contractors will 
employ apprentices in their respective crafts to perform such work as is within their capabilities 
and which is customarily performed by the craft in which they are indentured. Contractors may 
utilize apprentices and such other appropriate classifications as are contained in the applicable 
Schedule A/B in a ratio not to exceed the   maximum permissible ratio as permitted by applicable 
New Jersey law and as prescribed in the applicable prevailing wage determination for Hudson 
County, New Jersey. Apprentices and such other classifications as are appropriate shall be 
employed in a manner consistent with the provisions of the appropriate collective bargaining 
agreement listed in Schedule A/B. 
SECTION 2. HELMETS TO HARDHATS 
 
The Employers and the Unions recognize a desire to facilitate the entry into the building and 
construction trades of veterans who are interested in careers in the building and construction 
industry. The Employers and Unions agree to utilize the services of the Center for Military 
recruitment, Assessment and Veterans Employment (hereinafter “Center”) and the Center’s 
“Helmets to Hardhats” program to serve as a resource for preliminary orientation, assessment of 
construction aptitude, referral to apprenticeship programs or hiring halls, counseling and 
mentoring, support network, employment opportunities and other needs as identified by the parties. 
The Unions and Contractors agree to coordinate with the Center to create and maintain an 
integrated database of veterans interested in working on the Project and of apprenticeship and 
employment opportunities for the Project. To the extent permitted by law, the Unions will give 
credit to such veterans for bona fide, provable past experience. 
ARTICLE 14 - SAFETY PROTECTION OF PERSON AND PROPERTY 
 
 
SECTION 1. SAFETY REQUIREMENTS 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
33 
 
Each Contractor will ensure that applicable OSHA requirements and other requirements set forth 
in the contract documents are at all times maintained on the Project and the employees and Unions 
agree to cooperate fully with these efforts.  Employees must perform their work at all times in a 
safe manner and protect themselves and the property of the Contractor and the Owner from injury 
or harm. Failure to do so will be grounds for discipline, including discharge. 
 
SECTION 2. CONTRACTOR RULES 
Employees covered by this Agreement shall at all times be bound by the reasonable safety, 
security, and visitor rules as established by the Contractors, the Prime Contractor and the Owner 
for this Project. Such rules will be published and posted in conspicuous places throughout the 
Project. 
SECTION 3. INSPECTIONS 
The Contractors , the Prime Contractor and the Owner retain the right to inspect incoming 
shipments of equipment, apparatus, machinery and construction materials of every kind. 
ARTICLE 15 - NO DISCRIMINATION 
SECTION 1. COOPERATIVE EFFORTS 
The Contractors and Unions agree that they will not discriminate against any employee or applicant 
for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin or age in any manner 
prohibited by law or regulation. It is recognized that special procedures may  be established by 
Contractors and Local Unions and the New Jersey State Department of Labor for the training and 
employment of persons who have not previously qualified to be employed on construction projects 
of the type covered by this Agreement. The parties to this Agreement will assist in such programs 
and agree to use their best efforts to ensure that the employment goals for members of 
disadvantaged communities are met on this Project. 
SECTION 2. LANGUAGE OF AGREEMENT 
The use of the masculine or feminine gender in this Agreement shall be construed as including all 
genders. 
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL TERMS 
SECTION 1. PROJECT RULES 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
34 
 
GDC and the Contractors shall establish such reasonable Project rules as are appropriate  for the 
good order of the Project, provided they do not violate the terms of this Agreement. These rules 
will be explained at the pre -job conference and posted at the Project site and may be amended 
thereafter as necessary. Failure of an employee to observe these rules and regulations shall be 
grounds for discipline, including discharge. The fact that no order was posted prohibiting a certain 
type of misconduct shall not be a defense to an employee disciplined or discharged for such 
misconduct when the action taken is for cause. 
SECTION 2. TOOLS OF THE TRADES 
The welding/cutting torch and chain fall are tools of the trade having jurisdiction over the work 
performed. Employees using these tools shall perform any of the work of the trade. There shall 
be no restrictions on the emergency use of any tools or equipment by any qualified employee, or 
on the use of any tools or equipment for the performance of work within the employee's 
jurisdiction. 
SECTION 3. SUPERVISION 
Employees shall work under the supervision of the craft foreperson or general foreperson. 
SECTION 4. TRAVEL ALLOWANCES 
There shall be no payments for travel expenses, travel time, subsistence allowance or other such 
reimbursements or special pay except as expressly set forth in this Agreement and in Schedule 
A/B.  
SECTION 5. FULL WORK DAY 
Employees shall be at their staging area at the starting time established by the Contractor and shall 
be returned to their staging area by quitting time after performing their assigned functions under  
the supervision of the Contractor. The locations of the staging areas are to be established at a pre-
job conference between contractor and the Local Union.  The signatories reaffirm their policy of 
a fair day's work for a fair day's wage. 
SECTION 6. COOPERATION 
The Owner, the Prime Contractor and the Unions will cooperate in seeking any U.S. Department 
of Labor and/or NJ Department of Labor and Workforce Development  approvals that may be 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
35 
 
required for implementation of any terms of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 17 - SAVINGS AND SEPARABILITY 
SECTION 1. THIS AGREEMENT 
In the event that the application of any provision of this Agreement is enjoined, on either an 
interlocutory or permanent basis, or otherwise found in violation of law, the provision involved 
shall be rendered, temporarily or permanently, null and void but the remainder of the Agreement 
shall remain in full force and effect.  In such event, the Agreement shall remain in effect for 
contracts already bid and awarded or in construction where the Contractor voluntarily accepts the 
Agreement. The parties to this Agreement will enter into negotiations for a substitute provision 
in conformity with the law and the intent of the parties for contracts to be let in the future. 
 
SECTION 2. THE BID SPECIFICATIONS 
In the event that GDC’s or the Prime Contractor's bid specifications, or other action, requiring that 
a successful bidder become signatory to this Agreement is enjoined, on either an interlocutory or 
permanent basis, or otherwise found in violation of law , such requirement shall be rendered, 
temporarily or permanently, null and void but the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect 
to the extent allowed by law. In such event, the Agreement shall remain in effect for contracts 
already bid and awarded or in construction where the Contractor voluntarily accepts the 
Agreement. The parties will enter into negotiations as to modifications to the Agreement to reflect 
the court action taken and the intent of the parties for contracts to be let in the future. 
 
SECTION 3. NON-LIABILITY 
In the event of an occurrence referenced in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article, neither the Owner, 
the Prime Contractor, nor any Contractor, or any signatory Union shall be liable, directly or 
indirectly, for any action taken, or not taken, to comply with any court order, injunction or 
determination. Project bid specifications will be issued in conformance with court orders in effect 
and no retroactive payments or other action will be required if the original court determination is 
ultimately reversed. 
  
SECTION 4. NON-WAIVER 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
36 
 
Nothing in this Article shall be construed as waiving the prohibitions of Article 7 as to signatory 
Contractors and signatory Unions. 
ARTICLE 18 - FUTURE CHANGES IN SCHEDULE A/B AGREEMENTS  
 
SECTION 1. CHANGES TO AREA CONTRACTS 
A. Schedule A /B Agreements shall continue in full force and effect until the 
Contractor and/or Union parties to Schedule A/B  Agreements notify the Prime Contractor in 
writing of the mutually agreed upon changes in provisions of such A greements which are 
applicable to the Project, and their effective dates. 
B. It is agreed that any provisions negotiated into future Schedule A/B Agreements 
will not apply to work on this Project if such provisions are less favorable to this Project than those 
uniformly required of contractors for construction work normally covered by those agreements; 
nor shall any provisions in future Schedule A/B Agreements be recognized or applied on this 
Project if it may be construed to apply exclusively, or predominantly, to work covered by this 
Project Labor Agreement. 
C. Any disagreement between signatories to this Project Labor Agreement over the 
incorporation into Schedule A/B Agreement of provisions agreed upon in the renegotiations of 
Area Collective Bargaining Agreements shall be resolved in accordance with the procedure set 
forth in Article 9 of this Project Labor Agreement.  
 
SECTION 2. LABOR DISPUTES DURING AREA CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS 
The Unions agree that there will be no Prohibited Activity or other disruptive activity or other 
violations of Article 7 affecting the Project by any Local Union involved in the renegotiations of 
Area Local Collective Bargaining Agreements nor shall there by any lock -out on the Project 
affecting a Local Union during the course of such renegotiations. The Contractor agrees that all 
payments due under any renegotiated area Local Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be made 
retroactive to the effective date thereof. 
ARTICLE 19- DRUGS AND ALCOHOL 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
37 
 
A Drug and Alcohol Policy, which includes pre -assignment, post-accident, reasonable suspicion, 
and return to duty testing is attached to this Agreement as Exhibit 4 and applies to this Project. All 
signatory Parties to this Agreement shall fully comply with the Project Drug and Alcohol Policy. 
ARTICLE 20-MISCELLANEOUS 
SECTION 1. MODIFICATIONS 
Any modification, amendment, or supplement to this Agreement is not valid or enforceable unless 
it is in writing and signed by an authorized representative of the Owner, the Prime Contractor, the 
BTC, and the Unions. 
 
SECTION 2. NOTIFICATIONS 
Any notice, request, demand, instruction, or other document to be given or served will be in writing 
and will be delivered personally with a receipt requested thereof or by fax or e -mail, or sent by 
Federal Express to the respective addresses set forth below: 
To the Owner: 
Kris Kolluri, Chief Executive Officer 
Gateway Development Commission 
Email: kkolluri@gatewayprogram.org 
With an email copy to: 
 Angelo J. Genova, Esq., agenova@genovaburns.com 
 
 
To the BTC: 
Patrick Kelleher, President 
   Hudson County Building and Construction Trades Council  
    20 Fairfield Place 
   West Caldwell, New Jersey 07006 
Email: Patrick Kelleher <pkelleher@plumbers24.org> 
 
With an email copy to: Raymond G. Heineman, Esq., rheineman@krollfirm.com 
  
SECTION 3. GOVERNING LAW 
This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the United States and of the State of New Jersey. 
SECTION 4. COUNTERPARTS AND FASCIMILE TRANSMISSION 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
38 
 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and any party hereto may execute 
any such counterpart, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an 
original, and all of which counterparts taken together shall constitute but one and the same 
instrument. Any signatures delivered by a party by facsimile transmission shall be deemed an 
original signature hereto. 
 
SECTION 5. ENTIRE UNDERSTANDING 
The Parties agree that the total results of their bargaining with respect to the subject matter of this 
Agreement are embodied in the Agreement and neither party is required to render any performance 
not set forth in the wording of this Agreement. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed and 
effective as of the _____ day of May, 2024. 
The Gateway Development 
Commission 
 
Hudson County Building and Construction 
Trades Council AFL-CIO 
By: ____________________________ 
Title: ___________________________ 
By:___________________________________ 
Title:__________________________________ 
 
Union Affiliates: 
 
 
Asbestos Workers, Local 32 
 
 
Boilermakers, Local 28 
  
 
Bricklayers and Allied Crafts. Local 4 
 
 
Carpenters, Local 253 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
39 
 
 
Dockbuilders, Local 1456 
 
 
Electrical Workers, Local 164 
 
 
Elevator Workers, Local 1 
 
 
Heavy Construction Laborers, Local 472 
 
 
Ironworkers, Local 11 
 
 
Laborers, Local 3 
 
        ______________________________________________ 
Millwrights, Local 715 
 
 
Operating Engineers, Local 825 
 
 
Operative Plasterers & Cement Masons, Local 29 
 
 
Painters and Allied Trades, District Council 21 
 
 
Pipefitters, Local 274 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
40 
 
Plumbers, Local 24 
 
 
Roofers, Local 8 
 Sheet Metal Workers, Local 25 
 
 
Sprinkler Fitters, Local 696 
 
 
Teamsters, Local 560 
 
 
Tile/Marble/Terrazzo Workers, Local 7 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
 
 SCHEDULE A 
SECTION 1. SUBTERRANEAN PROJECT WORK  
The term “Subterranean Project work” is defined in Article 2 and refers to all  Project Work, as 
set forth in Article 3, which is to be performed at or between the North Bergen Portal and the 
Hoboken Shaft including, but not limited to,  all tunneling operations concerning shafts, 
excavation, dewatering, shoring, forming, pouring, placing and finishing of concrete and grout and 
the reinforcement of same, the operation of drilling machines, drilling and blasting, the laying of 
all pipe and  conduit, and other related work. The following is illustrative, but not limiting, of  
Project Work that is Subterranean Project work: 
1. Construct the North Bergen Portal, including the open cut; 
2. Construct the Hoboken Shaft, including excavation, rock support and rock mass grouting 
at the toe of the slurry walls (this does not include final lining of the Hoboken Shaft); 
3. Construct two bored tunnels from the North Bergen Portal to the Hoboken Shaft; 
including mining in rock from the North Bergen Portal to the Hoboken Shaft , all 
electrical work incidental to the mining, and installation of precast concrete tunnel lining;  
4. Construct six cross passages between the two bored tunnels, including mining the cross 
passages, all electrical work incidental to the mining, constructing rock support, 
installation of a waterproofing membrane system, and cast- in-place concrete tunnel 
lining; and  
5. Transport of excavated tunnel and cross passage material to the North Bergen Portal 
construction site. 
 
SECTION 2. SCHEDULE A UNIONS 
The term “Schedule A Unions” is defined in Article 2 and refers to the following Unions that are 
eligible for an assignment of Subterranean Project work, as provided for in Article 2 and Article 10: 
1. Carpenters, Local 253;  
2. Heavy Construction Laborers, Local 472;  
3. Electrical Workers, Local 164 
4. Ironworkers, Local 11; and 
5. Operating Engineers, Local 825;  
6. Teamsters, Local 560;  
 
The Schedule A Unions’ respective agreements (a.k.a. Schedule A Agreements, as defined in 
Article 2) are collectively attached as Exhibit 1. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
 
 
SCHEDULE B 
 
SECTION 1. SURFACE PROJECT WORK 
The term Surface Project work is defined in Article 2 and refers to all Project Work, as set forth in 
Article 3, that is not Subterranean Project work. 
SECTION 2. SCHEDULE B UNIONS 
The term “Schedule B Unions” is defined in Article 2 and refers to the following Unions:  
1. Asbestos Workers, Local 32 
2. Boilermakers, Local 28 
3. Bricklayers and Allied Crafts. Local 4 
4. Carpenters, Local 253 
5. Dockbuilders, Local 1456 
6. Electrical Workers, Local 164 
7. Elevator Workers, Local 1 
8. Heavy Construction Laborers, Local 472 
9. Ironworkers, Local 11 
10. Laborers, Local 3 
11. Millwrights, Local 715 
12. Operating Engineers, Local 825 
13. Operative Plasterers & Cement Masons, Local 29 
14. Painters and Allied Trades, District Council 21 
15. Pipefitters, Local 274 
16. Plumbers, Local 24  
17. Roofers, Local 8 
18. Sheet Metal Workers, Local 25 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
 
19. Sprinkler Fitters, Local 696 
20. Teamsters, Local 560 
21. Tile/Marble/Terrazzo Workers, Local 7 
The Schedule B Unions’ respective agreements (a.k.a. Schedule B Agreements, as defined in Article 
2) are collectively attached as Exhibit 2. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
 
 
 
 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT COVERING THE 
PALISADES TUNNEL PROJECT IN NORTH BERGEN, UNION CITY, 
WEEHAWKEN AND HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY 
TELE-DATA ADDENDUM 
 
The parties hereby agree that all Tele-data work and associated electrical work performed on any 
of the sites during construction shall be done by employees represented by the signatory unions. For the 
purpose of this Agreement, Tele-data work shall include, but not limited to, the following: All receiving, 
placement, installation, operation, testing, inspection, maintenance, repair and service of radio, television, 
video, data, voice, sound, emergency call, microwave and visual production and reproduction apparatus, 
equipment and appliances used for domestic, commercial, education and entertainment purposes; all 
installation and erection of equipment, apparatus or appliance, cables  and/or  wire, emergency power 
(batteries) and all directly related work which becomes an integral part of the telecommunication  and/or  
telecommunications related systems repair and service maintenance work of telecommunications systems 
and devices including, but not limited to, Private Branch Exchanges (PBX -PABX), Key equipment -
owned, CCTV, CATV, card access, Systems RS 232 ethernet and/or any local area network system 
associated with computer installation. 
 
________________________  SIGNATORY UNIONS 
    
BY:_____________________  BY:_____________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
 
 
 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT COVERING THE 
PALISADES TUNNEL PROJECT IN NORTH BERGEN, UNION CITY, 
WEEHAWKEN AND HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY 
 
SHEET METAL ADDENDUM 
 
(General Contractor) (Project Management Firm) agrees that when subcontracting for 
prefabrication of H.V.A.C. duct and other related sheet metal, such prefabrication shall be 
subcontracted to fabricators who pay their employees engaged in such fabrication not less than the 
prevailing wage for comparable sheet metal fabrication as established under agreements between local 
affiliates of Sheet Metal Workers’ International Association and local sheet metal fabricators. 
(General Contractor) (Project Management Firm) and the Sheet Metal Workers’ International 
Association agree to work with fabrication shops referenced in the Addendum.  This joint effort will be 
directed at improving fabricators’ competitiveness through the application of continuous improvement 
principles. 
 
                                                                                                  __ 
(Prime Contractor)      Sheet Metal Workers’ 
                                          International Assoc. Local #25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
 
 
 
 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT COVERING THE 
PALISADES TUNNEL PROJECT IN NORTH BERGEN, UNION CITY, 
WEEHAWKEN AND HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY 
 
 
 
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 560 ADDENDUM 
 
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 11, Section 2 of the Project Labor Agreement, a 
Contractor who becomes signatory to this Project Labor Agreement who is not already a 
participating and contributing employer to the pension fund(s) specified in the Exhibit A 
collective bargaining agreement (currently the Trucking Employees of North Jersey Pension 
Fund;, hereinafter the “TENJ Pension Fund,” and the Teamsters Local No. 408 Pension Fund), 
shall make direct all contributions required by the Exhibit A collective bargaining agreement 
exclusively to the Trucking Employees of North Jersey Annuity Fund, a defined contribution 
plan. Any such Contractor shall not participate in nor contribute to the TENJ or Local 408 
Pension Funds, and shall have no obligation to the TENJ or Local 408  Pension Funds. 
 
2. Any Contractor who is already participating in and contributing to the TENJ or Local 408  
Pension Fund, separately from this Project Labor Agreement, shall pay contributions as 
provided for in Article 11, Section 2 of this Project Labor Agreement. 
 
Agreed to and accepted this _____ day 
of ______, 2024: 
 
For the Prime Contractor:    For Teamsters Local 560 
 
 
_________________________    __________________________ 
 
 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
 
EXHIBIT 1 
To be provided. 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
 
EXHIBIT 2 
To be provided. 
 
 
 
 
 
      
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
 
EXHIBIT 3 
 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT 
COVERING THE 
PALISADES TUNNEL PROJECT IN  
NORTH BERGEN, UNION CITY, WEEHAWKEN AND HOBOKEN, N.J.  
UNION CITY, WEEHAWKEN AND HOBOKEN, N.J.   
LETTER OF ASSENT 
 
Re: Project Labor Agreement, Palisades Tunnel Project 
The Hudson County Building & Trades Council, AFL-CIO and 
The Gateway Development Commission dated   
(the “Agreement’) 
 
The undersigned, as a Prime Contractor, Contractor(s) or Subcontractor(s) on a Contract which is 
part of large project construction for the Gateway Development Commission known as the Palisades 
Tunnel Project in North Bergen, Union City, Weehawken and Hoboken, New Jersey for and in 
consideration of the award of a Contract to perform work on said Project,  and in further 
consideration of the mutual promises made in the Project Labor Agreement, a copy of which was 
received and is acknowledged, hereby: 
 
(1) On behalf of itself and all its employees, accepts and agrees to be bound by the terms 
and conditions of the Project Labor Agreement, together with any and all amendments 
and supplements now existing or which are later made thereto, and understands that 
any act of non- compliance with all such terms and conditions will subject the non -
complying Contractor or employee(s) to being prohibited from the Project Site un til 
full compliance is obtained. 
 
(2) Certifies that it has no commitments or agreements that would preclude its full 
compliance with the terms and conditions of said Project Labor Agreement. 
 
(3) Agrees to secure from any Contractor(s) (as defined in said Project Labor Agreement) 
which is or becomes a Subcontractor(s) (of any tier), a duly executed Letter of Assent 
in a form identical to this document prior to commencement of any work. 
 
 
Company Name 
 
By:    Contract Number  
Title:    Prime Contractor  
Date:     
 
cc: (Unions employed by Contractor) 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
 
 
 
      EXHIBIT 4 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT 
COVERING THE 
PALISADES TUNNEL PROJECT IN 
NORTH BERGEN, UNION CITY, WEEHAWKEN AND HOBOKEN, N.J.  UNION CITY, 
WEEHAWKEN AND HOBOKEN, N.J. 
 
DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY 
 
To be provided. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
4 
E
XHIBIT B 
LETTER AGREEMENT  
BETWEEN  
GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION  
AND 
HEAVY AND GENERAL LABORERS LOCAL 472 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS  
 
 
Two Penn Plaza East – 11th Floor 120 Broadway – 10th Floor 
Newark, NJ 07105 New York, NY  10271 
 
 
Kris Kolluri 
Chief Executive Officer 
Gateway Development Commission 
 
 
 
 
Mr. Michael Hellstrom 
Mr. Manuel Amador 
 
Re:  Letter Agreement regarding Subterranean Work to be Performed by Members 
  of Heavy and General Laborers Local 472 at the Palisades Tunnel Project________ 
 
Gentlemen: 
 This letter confirms the agreement reached between the Gateway Development Commission 
(“GDC”) and Heavy and General Laborers Local 472 regarding the wage rates that will apply to the 
Subterranean Work (as defined in Article 2 of the Project Labor Agreement covering the Palisades Tunnel 
Project (“PLA”)) that the Heavy and General Construction Laborers Local 472 will perform pursuant to the 
PLA covering the Palisades Tunnel Project (the “Work”).  
Straight Time Rate for Subterranean Work. For the Work covered by the PLA, the straight time 
rates to be paid will be the rates provided for in the New Jersey Prevailing Wage Rate Determination titled 
Free Air Tunnel Jobs- Entire State (“FATJ-ES PWD”) as more specifically set forth in the attached rate 
schedule. 
 The GDC and Heavy and General Laborers Local 472 expressly agree that any provisions in any 
of the Schedule A/B Agreements setting forth rates and/or hours for “bi-state” or “cross-Hudson” or “trans-
Hudson” project work do not apply to this Project. 
This letter confirms our agreement that the wage rates that will apply to Subterranean Work 
performed by Heavy Construction Laborers Local 472 for the Hudson River Tunnel Project, estimated to 
begin in October 2025, will be the wage rates prescribed by the  New Jersey Department of Labor and 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

DRAFT AGREED UPON BY PARTIES - SUBJECT TO APPROVAL BY GDC BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS 
Workforce Development in the Prevailing Wage Rate Determination for Heavy & General Laborers – 
New Trans Hudson Tunnels, as it may be amended from time to time. 
___________________________________ 
Kris Kolluri 
Chief Executive Officer 
Gateway Development Commission  
Dated: May , 2024 
___________________________________ 
Michael Hellstrom 
Vice President and Eastern Regional 
Manager     
Dated: May , 2024 
____________________________________ 
Manuel Amador 
Business Manager 
Dated: May  , 2024 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 Local 472 & 172 Free Air Tunnel Jobs 
 
Wages  3/1/24       3/1/25       3/1/26      
 
Walking Boss & Superintendents……………………………. $65.06          $67.13          $69.31 
           
Heading Foremen, Shaft Foremen, Rod Foremen, 
Electrician Foremen, Rigging Foremen…………………….  $64.69         $66.75          $68.94 
         
Iron Foremen, Caulking Foremen, Form Foremen 
Concrete Foremen, Grout Foremen, Cement Finishing 
Foremen, Clean-up Foremen, Track Foremen………………..  $64.06          $66.13          $68.31 
         
Blasters……………………………………………………….           $67.19          $69.25          $71.44    
       
Top Labor Foremen…………………………………………..  $63.38          $65.44          $67.63 
          
Skilled Men (including Miners, Drill Runners, Iron Men, 
Maintenance Men, Conveyer Men, Safety Miners, Riggers, 
Block Layers, Cement Finishers, Rod Men, Caulkers, Powder  
Carriers, All Other Skilled Men)...………………………….               $62.94          $65.00          $67.19   
 
Semi-Skilled Men (including Miner’s Helpers, Chuck Tenders,  
Track Men, Nippers, Brake Men, Derail Men, Cable Men, Hose  
Men, Grout Men, Gravel, Form Men, Pipelayers, Conduit  
Installers, Bell or Signal Men (top or bottom), Form Workers and  
Movers, Concrete Workers, Shaft Men, Tunnel Laborers and  
Caulkers’ Helpers, All other Semi-Skilled Men………………          $62.75          $64.81          $67.00 
 
All others (including Powder Watchmen, Change House  
Attendants, Top Laborers) …………………………………......        $62.25          $64.31          $66.50      
      
Traffic Control Coordinator: when working as a TCC all classifications to receive $.75 above their current rate 
of pay. 
 
Shift Differential:  see Article 24. Shifts b)  
 
Hazardous Waste Laborer:  Hazardous Waste Removal Work in Level A, B, or C, that requires personal 
protection, the rate will be the regular hourly Classification rate plus $5.00 per hour. 
 
Hazardous Waste removal work in Level D, or where personal protection is not required, or where a Hazardous 
Waste Certificate is required, the rate will be the regular hourly classification rate plus $1.00 per hour. 
 
Job Steward to receive $.50 over regular hourly rate of classifications.
     

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
 
 
FRINGE BENEFITS                                                             
 
 
 
 
FRINGE BENEFITS                                                        3/1/24          3/1/25         3/1/26                    
 
Health and Welfare .............…………………………….  $12.30          $12.80        $13.30  
Pension ........................…………………………………. $10.95        $11.45        $11.95  
Annuity Fund ......……………………………………….   $  8.00          $  8.50        $  9.00     
Vacation Fund ..................………………………………   $  4.25          $  4.50        $  4.50     
Safety, Education & Training Fund……………………..   $    .65          $    .65        $    .65               
C.I.A.P. .......................………………………………….   $    .18          $    .23        $    .23              
LIUNA Health and Safety Fund ...……………………… $    .10          $    .10        $    .10            
LIUNA L.E.C.E.T. Fund ..........………………………....  $    .40          $    .40        $    .40               
Market Recovery Fund………………………………….. $    .50          $    .50        $    .50              
N.J.S.L.P.A.C. (a) ....…………………………………….  $    .20          $    .20        $    .20               
L.E.R.O.F. (b)……………………………………………  $    .40          $    .40        $    .40      
Local 472 Dues Supplement (c) 2.5% of Gross Wages 
Local 172 Dues Supplement (c) 3.5% of Gross Wages 
 
NOTES:  
 
To be deducted from employee wages: 
(a) N.J.S.L.P.A.C. 
(b) L.E.R.O.F. 
(c) Local 472 & 172 Dues Supplement 
 
 
 