Ga
teway Development Commission 
Regular Meeting of the Board  
Held Via Teleconference 
October 11, 2024 
MINUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Janine Bauer 
Amy Rosen 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
Marie Therese Dominguez 
AMTRAK 
Anthony R. Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. Call to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 12:00 PM.
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk advised that public comments were being solicited virtually and audio of the
meeting was being live streamed from the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and 
that a form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway Program website for those who 
wished to submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting Secretary Anderson  conducted a roll call and confirmed that all Commissioners were 
present, and that there was a quorum.  
Acting Secretary Anderson stated that adequate notice of today’s public meeting of the Board of 
Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s enabling 
legislation. 
II. Report on Minutes of the A ugust 28, 2024 Meeting
Acting Secretary Anderson reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of August 28, 2024
were delivered in electronic form to the Governors of New York and New Jersey on August 28, 2024, and 
that the time for action by the Governors of New York and New Jersey expired at midnight on September 
12, 2024, at which time the actions recorded in the Minutes went into full force and effect. 
III. Gateway Program Update
A time lapse video was presented  by the Commission’s Chief of Public Outreach, Stephen
Sigmund.  The Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Kris Kolluri,  provided an update on the Gateway 
Program. The Commission’s Acting Chief Technical Officer, Hamed Nejad, provided a technical update. 
The Commission’s Chief Financial Officer, Patrick McCoy, provided a financial update. 
Following the presentation, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk thanked Mr. Kolluri, Mr. Nejad, and Mr. McCoy 
for the update, and there were no questions or comments from the Board.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2 
I
V. Public Comments
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk announced that the Commission had solicited virtual comments from the
public in advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for soliciting these comments 
was posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout today’s meeting.  
There were three (3) written comments received by 5:00 PM on October 10, 2024: 
Commenter Topic 
Robert Briant, Utility & Transportation 
Association of New Jersey 
Package 3 NJ Surface Alignment 
Sophie Cappello, Regional Plan Association/ 
Build Gateway Now Coalition 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Mike Sidani, Michael Baker International Package 3 NJ Surface Alignment 
Co-C
hair Grewal-Virk noted that all written comments received by 5:00 p.m. on October 10, 
2024 before the meeting were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and 
would be filed in the Commission’s records after the meeting.  
Ther
e were two (2) written comments received on the day of the meeting: 
Commenter Topic 
Samuel Turvey, ReThinkNYC Hudson Tunnel Project 
Eric Jeter, A.C.T Abatement Corporation Hudson Tunnel Project 
V. Action Items
#1024-01: Authorization of Award of Contracts GDC-24-017-OP-1, GDC24-017-OP-2, GDC24-017-OP-3, 
GDC24-017-OP-4, GDC24-017-OP-5, GDC24-017-OP-6 AND GDC24-017-OP-7 For Legal Services to 
Support the Hudson Tunnel Project 
The B
oard acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Bauer made a motion, and Commissioner Barbas 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#1024-02:  Authorization to Increase the Not-To-Exceed Amount for the Contract with Ernst & Young 
Infrastructure Advisors, LLC (No. MCP18-002) 
The B
oard acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Bauer made a motion, and Commissioner Rosen 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#1024-03:  Hudson Tunnel Project – Manhattan Tunnel Project – Authorization to Enter Into and 
Execute Manhattan Tunnel Project Labor Agreement 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

3 
Th
e Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Barbas made a motion, and Commissioner 
Dominguez seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
VI. Adjournment
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that there was no further business to conduct, and then motioned to
adjourn the meeting. U pon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair Grewal -Virk and seconded  by 
Commissioner Dominguez, the meeting was adjourned at approximately 12:21 PM.  
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Maria C. Anderson 
Maria C. Anderson, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 10/11/2024 
#1024-01: AUTHORIZATION  OF AWARD OF CONTRACTS  GDC -24-017-OP-1, GDC24-0 17-OP-2, 
GDC24-017-OP-3, GDC24-0 17-OP-4, GDC24- 017-OP-5, GDC24-017-OP-6 AND GDC24-0 17-OP-7 
FOR LEGAL SERVICES TO SUPPORT THE HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT   
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) and throughout 
the Northeast Corridor (the " NEC"), New Jersey and New York  created the Gateway 
Development Commission ("GDC ") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state 
codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 
32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and  other  documents  and  instruments  as  may be  necessary or  appropriate to 
carry out any  power  of the  Commission  under  this act and  to  otherwise  a ccomplish any  
lawful purpose which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, 
the state of New York, with any  local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, 
department, commission or authority of  any  one  or  more of the  foregoing,  any  bi-state 
agency, Amtrak,  any  individual or  private firm,  entity or corporation, or with any one or more 
of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36 -8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
In April 2024, a federal ly compliant Request for Proposals (“RFP”) No . GDC-24-017-OP 
was issued by G DC soliciting proposals fro m entities i nterested in providi ng professional lega l 
services (“ Legal Services ”) to s upport the Hudson Tunne l Project (“HTP ”).  Proposals were  
received from fifteen (15) responsive and responsible firms. The proposals were reviewed by an 
evaluation pa nel consisting of representatives of GDC, New York, and Amtrak (collectively, 
“Evaluation Panel”). The Evalua tion Panel recommended eight (8) firms to be awarded 
through a competitive evaluation and, when notified, one proposal was withdrawn. 
Thereafter GDC undertook the negotiation of price with eac h firm.  The initial term of Contract 
GDC-24-017-OP is three (3) years ending in 2027 (“Term”), and thereafter, GDC has the option 
to extend the term for up to two (2) one (1) year extensions which, if elected, will end the term 
in 2029 (“Renewal Term”). 
Under GDC Board Resolution 1223 -01 approved on December 11, 2023, the GDC CEO 
was authorized to expend, in the normal course of business, the funds necessary to meet GDC’s 
obligations, in accordance with the  final annual Operating and Capital Budget for Fiscal Year 
2024. 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with 
Vice-Chair Coscia, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair Glen and Commissioners Bauer, 
Barbas, Dominguez and Rosen voting in favor: 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 10/11/2024 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, Chief Administrative Officer or Senior 
Director of Procurement  is authorized to enter into and execute Contracts GDC24-017-OP-1, 
GDC24-017-OP-2, GDC24-017-OP-3, GDC24-017-OP-4, GDC24-017-OP-5, GDC24-017-OP-6 and 
GDC24-017-OP-7, respectively, with Duane Morris, LLP, Gibbons PC, Hardwick Law Firm, LLC, 
Mayer Brown, LLP, McManimon Scotland and Baumann, LLC, Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe, LLP, 
and Proskauer Rose, LLP (collectively “Law Firm Group”). 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, is authorized to delegate, in writing, the 
authority to authorize, approve, create, amend, manage, and/or terminate any aspect of 
Contracts GDC24-017-OP-1, GDC24-017-OP-2, GDC24-017-OP-3, GDC24-017-OP-4, GDC24-017-
OP-5, GDC24-017-OP-6 and GDC24-017-OP-7 and execute such documents as may be required to 
the General Counsel, or other officers or employees of GDC provided that the Chief Executive 
Officer provides notice in writing to the Co-Chairs and Vice Chair of the Board of such delegation 
and any delegations of authority having occurred prior hereto are hereby ratified. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, or their designee, including the General 
Counsel, may assign the work to be performed by the Law Firm Group not to exceed the amount 
for the use of outside counsel included in the annual GDC operating budget approved by the 
Board, and any assignments having occurred prior hereto are hereby ratified. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or designee may enter into and execute 
any agreements and other documents on behalf of GDC in connection with Contracts GDC24-017-
OP-1, GDC24-017-OP-2, GDC24-017-OP-3, GDC24-017-OP-4, GDC24-017-OP-5, GDC24-017-OP-6 
and GDC24-017-OP-7 in their discretion. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to settle all claims by or 
against GDC arising out of Contracts GDC24-017-OP-1, GDC24- 017-OP-2, GDC24- 017-OP-3, 
GDC24-017-OP-4, GDC24- 017-OP-5, GDC24- 017-OP-6 and GDC24- 017-OP-7 where the total 
payment or amount of the claim is not in excess of $500,000.  Claims against GDC shall include 
claims against individuals for which GDC would be responsible under Article VII of GDC’s Bylaws 
(“Defense and Indemnification of Individuals”) ; provided, however, that in the case of claims 
against individuals for which GDC would be responsible under said Article VII which are covered 
by insurance purchased by or on behalf of such individuals, GDC shall pay such claims only to the 
extent that they are in excess of the amount for which insurance carriers are responsible. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 10/11/2024 
#1024-02: AUTHORIZATION TO INCREASE THE NOT-TO EXCEED AMOUNT FOR CONTRACT WITH E RNST 
& YOUNG INFRASTRUCTURE ADVISORS, LLC (NO. MCP-18-002) 
In 2018, the Port Authority of New York & New Jersey (the “Port Authority”) issued a Request for 
Proposals on behalf of the Gateway Program Development Corporation (“GPDC”), seeking to procure one 
or more Financial Advisor(s) to assist GPDC with project development activities related to the Hudson 
Tunnel Project  (“HTP”) . Ernst & Young Infrastructure Advisors, LLC was selected after a competitive 
procurement process based on the firm’s qualifications and experience, technical approach, and cost 
analysis, and a contract (P.A. Agreement No. MCP -18-002) was executed on December 18 , 2018 (the “EY 
Contract”). The EY Contract had a not -to-exceed amount of $8,100,000.00,  and an initial term of t hree 
years, which  could be extended for three additional one-y ear periods  (“Option Periods ”). The Port 
Authority subsequently exercised the first and second extensions of the EY Contract.  
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between New Jersey 
and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor (the "NEC"), the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) 
and the State of New York (“New York”) created the Gateway Development Commission ("GDC") through 
the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act 
(2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36 -1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act "). GDC has assumed all 
responsibilities from GPDC for advancing the HTP.  
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out 
any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose which 
the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with … any 
individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, 
Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36 -8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in part 
any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to which the 
Board deems appropriate.”  By Resolution dated September 13, 2022, the Board delegated to the GDC 
CEO certain authorities, including the authority to approve contracts with a value not in excess of 
$300,000 and to carry out the Commission’s procurement processes in accordance with the Board-
adopted Procurement Guidelines (“ Resolution No. 0922 -02”). Resolution No. 0922 -02 also authorized 
the GDC CEO to further delegate these authorities to ano ther officer or employee of GDC, which the 
GDC CEO so delegated to the GDC Senior Director, Procurement.    
On June 7, 2023, GDC and GPDC entered into an Assignment and Assumption Agreement whereby 
GPDC assigned all interests in certain agreements, including the EY Contract , to GDC pursuant to Section 
II.G.3 of GDC’s Procurement Guidelines.
Prior to the expiration of the second extension of the EY Contract on December 17, 2023, pursuant 
to GDC’s Procurement Guidelines and Resolution No. 0922 -02, GDC and the Port Authority  entered into 
an Assignment Agreement, whereby the Port Authority assigned its interests in the EY Contract to GDC. 
 Pursuant to Resolution No. 0922 -02, following the execution of the Assignment Agreement , the 
GDC Chief Executive Officer or the GDC Senior Director, Procurement exercised the third and final option 
period in the EY Contract pursuant to Section 2 thereof, covering the time period of December 18, 2023 
through December 17, 2024.  
Pursuant t o Resolution 1223-02, GDC C hief Executive O fficer or th e GDC Senior Director, 
Procurement were authorized to take any and all actions to authorize an increase in the EY Contract by an 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2 
Adopted 10/11/2024 
additional $3,255,000.00, inclusive of costs and expenses, and to take all other steps necessary to comply 
with the terms and conditions of the EY Contract.   The continuation of services of EY through December 
17, 2024 will require additional funding under the EY Contract beyond the not-to-exceed amount approved 
by Resolution 1223-02. 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Vice-Chair 
Coscia, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair Glen and Commissioners Bauer, Barbas, Dominguez and Rosen 
voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or designee is authorized to take any and all 
actions consistent with this resolution, and to authorize an increase in the EY Contract by an additional 
$1,870,000.00, inclusive of costs and expenses,  and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the 
terms and conditions of the EY Contract. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

1 
Adopted 10/11/24 
#1024-03: HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT – MANHATTAN TUNNEL PROJECT – AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE 
LABOR AGREEMENTS  
The Hudson Tunnel Project will improve resiliency, reliability, and redundancy for the busiest 
section of the Northeast Corridor (“NEC”) – the busiest passenger rail line in the United States. The Hudson 
Tunnel Project (“HTP”), for funding and financing purposes, includes the construction of a new Hudson 
River Tunnel between New York and New Jersey, and the rehabilitation of the existing 112-year-old North 
River Tunnel under the Hudson River.  
The Hudson River Ground Stabilization Project (“HRGS”) is an early works project part of the 
Hudson Tunnel Project. HRGS involves ground improvement in the Hudson River to strengthen the 
riverbed to facilitate future Hudson River Tunnel design and construction requirements.   
The Gateway Development Commission (the “Commission”) is a public and government 
sponsored authority established by bi -state legislation (the “GDC Act”) in July 2019. The Commission is 
serving as the NEPA Project Sponsor and federal grant recipient for the Hudson Tunnel Project.  
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to “enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out any 
power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose which the 
commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with the federal 
government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New York, with any local 
government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, commission or authority of any one 
or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, 
or with any one or more of them.” 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e).  
The GDC Act further empowers the Commission to “ utilize the existing labor force in the states 
and foster labor harmony in allowing for adoption of efficient labor work rules and practices during 
construction of the Project.” 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 7(q); N.J.S.A. § 32:36-8(q).  
A project labor agreement is a pre-hire collective bargaining agreement that establishes the terms 
and conditions of employment for a project.   
The Project Development Agreement for the Hudson Tunnel Project (the “PDA”), a foundational 
agreement between the St ates of New Jersey and New York, Amtrak, and the Commission regarding 
delivery of the Hudson Tunnel Project, provides, at Article IV, Section 4.01(b), that the Commission shall 
“engage with labor constituencies and lead the development and negotiation of applicable project labor 
agreement(s)” for the Hudson Tunnel Project.  
The Commission has engaged , via its outside counsel, a consultant  to conduct a study to 
determine that it is the Commission’s interest  to negotiate and execute project labor agreements for 
Manhattan Tunnel based on considerations such as the impact of delay, the possibility of cost savings 
advantages, and th e promotion of labor harmony are best met by requiring a project labor agreement .  
The labor study recommends that the Commission negotiate and execut e project labor agreements for 
Manhattan Tunnel. 
Based on the conclusions in this study, the Commission and the unions representing the trades 
who will perform work on Manhattan Tunnel (the “Parties”) have engaged in negotiations regarding the 
terms and conditions of employment for Manhattan Tunnel.   

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2 
Adopted 10/11/24 
The terms the Parties have negotiated are memorialized in the Project Memorandum of 
Agreement between the Commission and the District Council of New York and Vicinity of the Union 
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, Local Union No. 3 International Brotherhood of 
Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO, Local Union No. 40 of Bridge, Structural Ornamental, and Reinforcing Iron 
Workers, AFL-CIO, Building, Concrete, Excavating & Common Laborers Local No. 731, Operative Plasterers’ 
and Cement Masons’ International Association Local 780, and Teamsters, Local Union No. 282, which is 
attached hereto as “Exhibit A”, and the Memorandum of Understanding between the Commission and 
the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 14-14 B, AFL-CIO  and Local 15, 15A, 15C, 15D, 15G 
& 15H, AFL-CI O, which is attached hereto as “Exhibit B,” the Memorandum of Understanding between 
the Commission and Laborers’ International Union of North America, Laborers’ Local Union No. 147  which 
is attached hereto as “Exhibit C,” and  the Memorandum of Understanding between the Commission and 
District Council of New York City and Vicinity of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America which is attached hereto as “Exhibit D,” (collectively, the “Labor Agreements”).  
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the followi ng resolutions were adopted, with Vice-Chair 
Coscia, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair Glen and Commissioners Bauer, Barbas, Dominguez and Rosen 
voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer and designee are authorized to take any and all 
actions consistent with this resolution, and to make, execute and deliver in the name and on behalf of 
GDC the attached copies of the Labor Agreements, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with 
the terms and conditions of the Labor Agreements, including enforcing the terms of the Labor Agreements 
as may be required, including but not limited to, initiating arbitration procedures as specified in the Labor 
Agreements.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXHIBIT A 
PROJECT MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT 
FOR THE 
MANHATTAN TUNNEL PROJECT 
AGREEMENT BETWEEN 
GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION 
AND 
THE DISTRICT COUNCIL OF NEW YORK CITY AND VICINITY OF THE UNION 
BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA, 
LOCAL UNION NO. 3 INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTICAL WORKERS, AFL-CIO, 
LOCAL UNION NO. 40 OF BRIDGE, STRUCTURAL ORNAMENTAL AND REINFORCING IRON WORKERS, AFL-
CIO, 
BUILDING, CONCRETE, EXCAVATING & COMMON LABORERS LOCAL NO. 731,  
OPERATIVE PLASTERERS’ AND CEMENT MASONS’ INTERNATIONAL ASSOCIATION LOCAL 780 and 
TEAMSTERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 282 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
1 
P
ROJECT MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT 
FOR THE 
M
ANHATTAN TUNNEL PROJECT 
A
GREEMENT BETWEEN 
GAT
EWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION 
AND 
T
HE DISTRICT COUNCIL OF NEW YORK CITY AND VICINITY OF THE UNITED 
BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA, 
L
OCAL UNION NO. 3 INTERNATIONAL BROTHERHOOD OF ELECTRICAL WORKERS, 
AFL-CIO, 
L
OCAL UNION NO. 40 OF BRIDGE, STRUCTURAL ORNAMENTAL AND 
REINFORCING IRON WORKERS, AFL-CIO, 
B
UILDING, CONCRETE, EXCAVATING & COMMON LABORERS LOCAL NO. 731, 
OP
ERATIVE PLASTERERS’ AND CEMENT MASONS’ INTERNATIONAL 
ASSOCIATION LOCAL 780, and 
T
EAMSTERS, LOCAL UNION NO. 282 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
1
PROJECT MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT 
PREAMBLE  
This Memorandum of Agreement (“MOA” or “Agreement”) is entered into this ___ day 
of June, 2024 by and between the Gateway Development Commission (“GDC”) and the District 
Council of New York and Vicinity of the Union Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America, Local Union No. 3 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL -CIO, Local 
Union N os. 40 of Bridge, Structural Ornamental, and Reinforcing Iron Workers, AFL -CIO, 
Building, Concrete, Excavating & Common Laborers Local No. 731, Operative Plasterers’ and 
Cement Masons’ International Association, Local 780, and Teamsters, Local Union No. 282  
(“Unions”). 
WHEREAS, GDC is engaged in a project known as the “ Manhattan Tunnel Project ” 
(also referred to as the “Manhattan Tunnel” or “Project”) which is a part of a larger construction 
plan known as the Hudson Tunnel Project  that will be awarded as a design -build contract to a 
contractor pursuant to GDC’s procurement process (“Design-Build Contractor”).  
WHEREAS, GDC desires to provide for the cost efficient, safe, quality, and timely 
completion of the Project; 
WHEREAS, this Agreement will foster the achievement of these goals, inter alia, by: 
(1) expediting the construction process and otherwise minimizing disruption to the
Project;
(2) avoiding the costly delays of  labor unrest and promoting labor harmony for the
duration of the Project;
(2) standardizing certain terms and conditions governing the employment of labor on the
Project;
(3
) providing comprehensive and standardized mechanisms for the settlement of work
disputes, including those relating to jurisdiction;

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
2 
(4) e nsuring a reliable source of skilled and experienced labor;
(6) reducing labor costs by giving contractors flexibility to manage and perform work
operations in the most efficient and productive manner consistent with this
agreement;
(7
) maximizing Project safety conditions for both workers and others; and
WHEREAS, the Unions and their members desire to assist GDC in meeting these 
operational needs and objectives as well as to provide for the stability, security and work 
opportunities which are afforded by this Agreement. 
NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed in consideration for the mutual promises and covenants 
made herein as follows: 
ARTICLE 1 PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT 
1. This Agreement is entered into by and among GDC and the Unions.
2. GDC and the Unions each warrant and represent that they have been duly
authorized to enter into this Agreement on behalf of, and to bind, their respective organizations. 
The Parties hereby agree that the recitals set forth above are incorporated herein by reference 
and made a part of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 
2 CONDITIONS FOR AGREEMENT TO BECOME EFFECTIVE 
1. This Agreement shall not become effective unless each of the following conditions
are met: (a) the Agreement is signed by GDC, and (b) the Agreement is signed by each of the Unions. 
2. No contractor working on the Project is or will be obligated to sign or otherwise
become a party to any local,  area, national or other  agreement, including the local Collective 
Bargaining Agreements appended hereto and referred to  herein as Schedule A (see Index at 
Exhibit “3” below), except as may be required as a condition of performing work within the scope 
of this Agreement.  The term “Contractor” shall include any Construction Manager, General 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
3 
 
 
 
Contractor, Design-Build Contractor, and all other contractors and subcontractors of all tiers 
engaged in Project Work as defined in Article 5. 
ARTICLE 3 SUPREMACY CLAUSE 
1. This Agreement, togethe r with the Schedule A Agreements,  represents the  
complete understanding of all parties bound by this Agreement and supersedes any national 
agreement, local agreement, or other collective bargaining agreement of any type. 
2. Schedule A Agreements are those collective bargaining agreements of the Unions 
identified in the attached Schedule A that are appropriate for both the geographical area of the 
Project for the type of work being performed on the Project. 
3. Where a subject covered by the provisions of this Agreement is also covered by a 
Schedule A Agreement, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. Where this Agreement is 
silent on a subject, the applicable Schedule A Agreement shall govern. In interpreting this Section, 
the terms of this Agreement shall be given broad interpretation to ensure that the objectives of this 
Agreement are achieved. Any dispute arising between the Parties to this Agreement pertaining to 
this Project, including disputes as to the application and/or interpretation of this Agreement's 
Supremacy Clause and whether a Schedule A Agreement has been superseded by this Agreement, 
shall be resolved according to the Arbitration provision set forth in this Agreement exclusively and 
not pursuant to the grievance or arbitration provisions of a Schedule A Agreement. 
4. The liability of GDC and the liability of any Union under this Agreement shall be 
several and not joint. 
5. The Unions agree that this Agreement will be made available to, and will fully 
apply to, any Contractor performing work for the Project and all Contractors performing Project 
Work (as defined below) shall be required to sign a Letter of Assent (“LOA”) attached hereto as 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
4 
Exhibit “1 ”, without  regard to whether that Contractor performs work at other sites on either a 
union or nonunion basis, and without regard to whether employees of such Contractor are, or are 
not, members of any unions. Contractors shall acknowledge the application of this Agreement to 
this Project by executing a LOA. This Agreement shall not apply to the work of any Contractor that 
is performed at any location other than the site of Project Work, as defined in Article 5. 
ARTICLE 4 WORK PRESERVATION & SUBCONTRACTING 
G DC will not award Project W ork to a contractor of any tier and, further, Contractors will 
not subcontract Project Work except to a person, firm or corporation which is or agrees to become 
party to this Agreement pursuant to execution of a LOA. 
ARTICLE 5 SCOPE OF THIS AGREEMENT 
1. This Agreement shall apply to all Project work described in Exhibit “2” (“Project
Work”). 
2. The site of Project Work (per the technical definition by GDC) shall include
Block 675, Lot 1, and all areas between West 34th Street and West 24th Street.  The site of Project 
Work, however, shall not include any area within the aforementioned boundaries east of 10 th 
Avenue.  All work performed beyond these geographic boundaries, including but not limited to 
any fabrication, production, or preparation of materials or equipment beyond these geographic 
boundaries shall be deemed off-site work.  Notwithstanding the immediately preceding sentence, 
the District Council of New York City and Vicinity of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and 
Joiners of America shall perform covered work at all staging areas related to the Project. 
3. It is understood that GDC has sole discretion at any time to eliminate, terminate,
delay or suspend Project Work, in whole or in part, without recourse by the Unions, provided 
that if such Project Work is re -bid, re -awarded, and/or resumed it shall  be governed by this 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
5 
 
 
 
Agreement. Notwithstanding the above, it is agreed and understood among the Parties that 
Project Work may at any time be changed by GDC  in its sole discretion and that the definition 
of Project Work is not a representation, warranty or guarantee by GDC that GDC will refrain from 
making such changes to the current plan for the Project. There shall be no claim for wages, fund 
contributions or other recourse against GDC or a contractor for Project Work removed from the scope 
of work by GDC, provided that such action is not a subterfuge to avoid the obligations of this 
Agreement and if the work is later re-commenced, such work is covered by this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 6 PRE-HIRE RECOGNITION 
All Contractors performing Project Work shall recognize the Unions as the sole and 
exclusive bargaining representatives of all craft employees the Contractor employs with respect 
to Project Work performed within the scope of the Unions’ geographic and trade jurisdiction. 
This Agreement is a pre-hire collective bargaining agreement as described in Section 8(f) of the 
National Labor Relations Act (“NLRA ”) and shall not be deemed to create a recognition 
relationship under Section 9(a) of the NLRA, to require bargaining for a successor agreement, to 
bind the employer to a successor agreement, or to constitute a delegation of bargaining authority 
to any association, however, this provision does not eliminate any preexisting NLRA Section 
9(a) collective bargaining relationship or bargaining rights delegation that may otherwise exist 
between a Contractor and a Union. 
ARTICLE 7 UNION REFERRAL, NON-DISCRIMINATION,  DISADVANTAGED 
BUSINESS ENTERPRISES, LOCAL UNION REPRESENTATIVE, UNION 
VISITATION, AND SHOP STEWARDS 
1. The non- discrimination, local union representative, union visitation, and shop 
steward provisions of the Schedule A Agreements shall apply.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
6 
2. Th e  Contractors agree to request, employ, and hire craft employees for Project
Work through the job referral systems and hiring halls established in the Unions ’ Schedule A  
Agreements.  Notwithstanding this, Contractors shall have the sole right to determine the 
competency of all referrals; to determine the number of employees required; to select employees 
for layoff; and the sole right to reject any applicant referred by a Union except the Steward as per 
the Schedule A Agreement .  In the event that a Union does not fill any request for qualified 
employees within a 48-hour period after such request is made by a Contractor (Saturdays, Sundays 
and holidays excepted), a Contractor may employ qualified applicants from any other available 
source.  In the event that a Union does not have a job referral system, the Contractor shall give the 
Union first preference to refer applicants, subject to the other provisions of this Article.  The 
Contractor shall notify the Union of craft employees hired for Project Work within its jurisdiction 
from any source other than referral by the Union.   
2. A Contractor may request by name, and the Union will honor, referral of persons
who have applied to the Union for Project Work (“Core Employees”) and who meet the following 
qualifications: 
(i) possess any license required by New York State law for Project Work to be
performed;
(ii) have worked a total of at least 1000 hours in the Construction field during
the prior 3 years; and
(iii) were on the Contractor’s active payroll for at least 60 out of the 180 calendar
days prior to the contract award.
N
o more than twelve per centum (12%) of the employees covered by this Agreement, per 
Contractor per craft, shall be hired through the special provisions above. Under this special 
provision, name referrals begin with the eighth employee needed and continue on that same basis. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
7 
 
 
 
3. Project Wor k is being funded in part through the United States Department of 
Transportation (“U.S. DOT”).  Guidelines from the Federal Transit Administration (“FTA”) 
require that the GDC, as a recipient of U.S. DOT funding, set an overall DBEs participation goal.  
GDC’s compliance with the DBEs participation goal is subject to auditing and monitoring by the 
FTA.  Pursuant to this process, a DBEs goal of 12% is applicable to Project Work. The Unions are 
committed to utilize best efforts to assist GDC in reaching its DBEs goal for Project Work.  In an 
effort to achieve this 12% DBEs goal, the Parties agree to the following: 
A.  The Unions shall provide the Design -Build Contractor a full list of DBEs 
contractors that are signatory to its Schedule A Agreement  (“Signatory DBEs Contractors”). The 
Design-Build Contractor shall make good faith efforts to solicit proposals from Signatory DBEs 
Contractors.  Any Signatory DBEs Contractors that are awarded contracts for Project Work shall 
sign a LOA and be bound by this Agreement.  The value of such DBEs contracts shall count 
towards GDC’s 12% DBEs goal.   
B. The Design-Build Contractor shall encourage all DBEs contractors that it engages 
to sign a LOA.  A DBEs contractor with a prime contract or subcontract valued at five million 
dollars ($5,000,000) or less, exclusive of change -orders, that is not a signatory to a Schedule A  
Agreement, but signs a LOA may request by name, and the l Union will honor, referral of the 
second (2
nd), fourth (4 th), sixth (6 th), and eighth (8 th) Core Employee, who have applied to the 
Union for Project Work and who meet the following qualifications: 
(i) possess any license required by New York State law for Project Work to be 
performed; 
(ii) have worked a total of at least 1000 hours in the Construction field during 
the prior 3 years; and 
(iii) were on the Contractor’s active payroll for at least 60 out of the 365 calendar 
days prior to the contract award. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
8 
 
 
 
All such work performed by a DBEs contractor under this subsection shall also count 
towards the GDC’s DBEs goal of 12%. 
C. In the event that the Design-Build Contractor cannot meet its DBEs goals through 
the provisions in (3)(A) and (3)(B) above, DBEs contractors that are not a signatory to a Schedule 
A Agreement, or any other collective bargaining agreement, or a LOA (“Non-Signatory DBEs 
Contractors”) and are awarded a subcontract for Project Work valued at or under five million 
dollars ($5,000,000), exclusive of change -orders, shall be excluded from coverage under this 
Agreement, and shall be excluded from the subcontracting restrictions of the Schedule A 
Agreements, provided that the Non-Signatory DBEs Contractor is qualified. Such qualified Non-
Signatory DBEs Contractors performing Project Work under this exclusion shall be free to employ 
its core workforce and the Union shall not be deemed the NLRA 8(f) or 9(a) representative of 
those employees, unless the employees affirmatively designate a Union as such and choose to seek 
membership or representation in accordance with federal or state labor laws.  Once the DBEs goals 
for Project Work are met, all further Project Work performed by DBEs contractors shall be covered 
by this Agreement.  The Design-Build Contractor shall make good faith efforts towards equitable 
distribution of the DBEs exclusion across all trades to avoid disproportionate impact on any 
particular trade. It is expressly acknowledged that all Project Work performed under this DBEs 
exclusion is subject to the prevailing wage established for work of the kind performed. 
4. Where a DBEs Contractor voluntarily enters into a collective bargaining agreement 
with a Union, the employees of such DBEs C ontractor at the time the collective bargaining 
agreement is executed shall be allowed to join the Union for the applicable trade subject to 
satisfying the Union’s basic standards of proficiency for admission. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
9 
5. T o the extent permitted by the Union referral systems, employees affiliated with a
Union working for a DBEs Contractor under the terms of this Agreement may be requested by the 
DBEs Contractor by name to transfer with that DBEs Contractor to any other job governed by this 
Agreement. 
ARTICLE 8 MANAGEMENT’S RIGHTS 
1. Except as expressly limited by a specific provision of this Agreement, Contractors
retain full and exclusive authority for the management of their operations including, but not 
limited to, the right to: direct the work force, including determination as to the number of 
employees to be hired and the qualifications therefore; the promotion, transfer, layoff of its 
employees; require compliance with the directive of GDC, including standard restrictions related 
to security and access to the Project Work site th at are equally applicable to GDC, guests, or 
vendors; the discipline or discharge for just cause of its employees; assign and schedule work; 
implement a timekeeping system of their choosing; promulgate reasonable Project Work rules 
that are not inconsistent with this Agreement or rules common in the industry and are reasonably 
related to the nature of work; and, the requirement, timing and number of employees to be 
utilized for overtime work. No rules, customs, or practices which limit or restrict productivity or 
efficiency of the individual, as determined by the Contractor, GDC, and/or joint working efforts 
with other employees shall be permitted or observed. 
2. There shall be no limitation or restriction upon the Contractor’s choice of
materials, techniques, methods, technology or design, or, regardless of source or location, upon 
the use and installation of equipment, machinery, package units, pre -cast, pre-fabricated, pre-
finished, or pre -assembled materials or products, tools, or other labor -saving devices. 
Contractors may, without restriction, install or use materials, supplies or equipment regardless 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
10 
 
 
 
of their source; provided, however, that where there is a Schedule A Agreement that includes a 
lawful union standards and practices clauses, then such clause as set forth in the Schedule A 
Agreement will be complied with, unless there is a lawful GDC specification (or specification 
issued by a Construction Manager which would be lawful if issued by the GDC directly) that 
would specifically limit or restrict the Contractor’s choice of materials, techn iques, methods, 
technology or design, or, regardless of source or location, upon the use and installation of 
equipment, machinery, package units, pre -cast, pre-fabricated, pre-finished, or pre -assembled 
materials or products, tools, or other labor-saving devices, and which would prevent compliance 
with such Schedule A Agreement provision. The on-site installation or application of such items 
shall be performed by the craft having jurisdiction over such work; provided, however, it is 
recognized that other personnel having special qualifications may participate, in a supervisory 
capacity, in the installation, check-off or testing of specialized or unusual equipment or facilities 
as designated by the Contractor. There shall be no restrictions as to work which is not performed 
on the Project Worksite.  
ARTICLE 9 WORK STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS 
 
SECTION 1 NO PROHIBITED ACTIVITY OR LOCKOUTS 
There shall be no strikes, sympathy strikes, work stoppages, slowdowns, walkouts, 
picketing, handbilling, demonstrations or other disruptive activity of any kind (collectively, 
“Prohibited Activity”) at the Project Work site for any reason by any Union or employee against 
any contractor or employer.  There shall be no other Union or concerted or employee activity 
which disrupts or interferes with the operation of Project Work or the objectives of GDC at any 
Project Work site.  In addition, failure of any Union or employee to cross any picket line 
established by a union, signatory or non- signatory to this Agreement, or the picket or 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
11 
demonstration line of any other organization, at or in immediate proximity to a Project Work site 
w
here the failure to cross disrupts or interferes with the operation of Project Work is a violation 
of this Article. Should any employees breach this provision, the Unions will use their best efforts 
to try to immediately end that breach and return all employees to work.  There shall be no lockout 
at a Project Work site by GDC or any Contractor. 
SECTION 2 
 DISCHARGE FOR VIOLATION 
A contractor may discharge any employee violating Article 9, above, and any such 
employee will not be eligible thereafter for referral under this Agreement for a period of at least 
120 days. 
SECTION 3 
 ARBITRATION OF DISCHARGES FOR VIOLATION 
1. Procedures contained in Article 12 shall not be applicable to any alleged violation
of Article 9, with the single exception that an employee discharged for violation of Article 9 may 
have recourse to the procedures of  Article 12 to determine only if the employee did, in fact, 
violate the provisions of Article 9, but not for the purpose of modifying the discipline imposed 
where a violation is found to have occurred. 
2. If GDC or any contractor contends that any Union or their employee has violated
Article 9, it will notify the Union involved advising of such fact, with copies of the notification 
to the Unions and to any affected c ontractor. The Union shall instruct its members and shall 
otherwise use its best efforts to cause the employees to immediately cease and desist from any 
violation. The Unions shall request and otherwise use their best efforts to cause employees to 
immediately cease and desist from any violation of Article 9. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
12 
SECTION 4 EXPEDITED ARBITRATION 
GDC or any contractor or Union alleging a violation of Article 9 may utilize the 
e
xpedited procedure set forth below (in lieu of, or in addition to, any actions at law or equity 
that may be brought): 
a) A party invoking this procedure shall notify Martin Scheinman or Howard
Edelman, who shall be designated by a random selection process as Arbitrator under this 
expedited arbitration procedure. If the Arbitrator next on the list is not available to hear the matter 
within 24 hours of notice, the next Arbitrator on the list shall be called. If either Mr. Scheinman 
or Mr. Edelman should become incapacitated, the affected Union and GDC shall select an arbitrator 
pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association unless otherwise agreed to by the 
affected Union and GDC. Copies of such notification will be simultaneously sent to the alleged 
violator. 
b) The Arbitrator shall thereupon, after notice as to the time and place to the
contractor(s), the Union(s) involved, and the GDC, hold a hearing within 48 hours of receipt of 
the notice invoking the procedure if it is contended that the violation still exists. The hearing will 
not, however, be scheduled for less than 24 hours after the notice. 
c) All notices pursuant to this Article may be provided by email or confirmed
overnight delivery, to the Arbitrator, GDC, Union(s) and contractor(s) involved. The hearing may 
be held on any day including Saturdays or Sundays. The hearing shall be completed in one session, 
which shall not exceed 8 hours duration (not more than 4 hours being allowed to either side to 
present their case, and conduct their cross-examination) unless otherwise agreed. A failure of any 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
13 
 
 
 
Union or contractor to attend the hearing shall not delay the hearing of evidence by those present 
or the issuance of an award by the Arbitrator. 
d) The sole issue at the hearing shall be whether a violation of Article 9 above occurred. 
If a violation is  found to  have occurred, the Arbitrator shall  issue a Cease and Desist Award 
restraining such violation and serve copies on GDC, Union(s) and c ontractor(s) involved. The 
Arbitrator shall have no authority to consider any matter in justification, explanation or mitigation of 
such violation or to award damages or modify the disciplinary action taken (any damages issue is 
reserved solely for court proceedings, if any.) The Award shall be issued in writing within 3 hours 
after the close of the hearing and may be issued without an Opinion. If any involved party desires 
an Opinion, one shall be issued within 15 calendar  days, but its issuance shall  not delay 
compliance with, or enforcement of, the Award. 
e) An Award issued under this procedure may be enforced by any court of competent 
jurisdiction upon the filing of this Agreement together with the pertinent LOA, the Award, and a 
Petition to Confirm. Notice of the filing of such enforcement proceedings shall be given to the 
signatory Union(s), GDC and/or contractor(s) involved. In any court proceeding  to obtain a 
temporary or preliminary order enforcing the Arbitrator's award, GDC, the contractor(s) involved 
and Union(s) involved waive their right to a hearing and agree that such proceedings may be ex 
parte, provided notice is given to opposing counsel. Such agreement does not waive any Party’s 
right to participate in a hearing for a final court order of enforcement, or  in any contempt  
proceeding. 
f) Any rights created by statute or law governing arbitration or injunction 
proceedings related to arbitrations enforcing this Agreement, which are inconsistent with the 
procedure set forth in this Article, or which interfere with compliance or prohibit enforcement of 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
14 
 
 
 
an Award under this Article, are hereby waived by GDC, Contractors and Unions to whom they 
accrue. 
g) The fees and expenses of  the Arbitrator shall be equally divided between the 
involved Contractor(s) and Union(s). Each party is otherwise responsible for their own legal costs 
and expenses, all as determined by the Arbitrator.  
h) GDC is a party in interest in all proceedings arising under this Article and shall be 
sent contemporaneous copies of all notifications required by this Article, and, at its option, may 
participate as a full party in any proceeding initiated under this Article. Notwithstanding this 
provision, no remedy may be issued against GDC. 
i) If the Arbitrator determines that a violation has occurred, the respondent Union(s) 
shall, within four (4) hours of receipt of the award, direct all the employees they represent on the 
Project to immediately cease the violation. 
ARTICLE 10 GRIEVANCE AND ARBITRATION 
1. It is specifically agreed that in the event of any disputes arising out of the 
interpretation of this Agreement or any other labor agreement applicable to this Project (excluding 
jurisdictional claims, which shall be resolved in accordance with Article 11, and claims pertaining 
to violation of Article 9) shall be settled by means of the procedures set forth in this Article. No 
such grievance shall be recognized unless called to the attention of the Contractor by the Union 
or to the attention of the Union by the Contractor within ten (10) calendar days after the alleged 
violation was committed, or within ten (10) calendar days of the first knowledge of the facts giving 
rise to the grievances. 
2. Grievances shall be settled in accordance with the following procedure  
(a) Step 1. The dispute shall be referred, in writing, to the Business Representative of the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
15 
 
 
 
Union involved or their designated representative, the C ontractor/employer 
superintendent and/or the Contractor/employer’s representative at the Project. 
(b) Step 2. In the event that the Business Representative of the involved Unions and the 
contractor/employer superintendent and/or the Contractor/employer’s representative at 
the Project cannot reach agreement within five (5) calendar days after a meeting is 
arranged and held, the matter will be referred, in writing, to the Union Representative 
and the Labor Relations Representative of the responsible contractor/employer. 
(c) Step 3.  In the event that the Union Representative and the Labor Relations 
Representative of the responsible C ontractor/employer are unable to resolve the 
dispute within ten  (10) calendar days after completion of Step 2, the grieving party 
may submit the specific issue, in writing with all issues of contention specified, to 
Arbitration with notice to the Design Build Contractor, any other Contractor involved 
and GDC. Expenses incurred in arbitration shall be borne equally by the Union and the 
contractor involved and the decision of the arbitrator shall be final and binding on both 
parties, provided, however that the arbitrator shall not have the authority to alter or 
amend or add to or delete from the provisions of this Agreement in any way. 
(d) Unless the grievance is raised, served in writing, referred, appealed and submitted to 
arbitration within the time limit that each stage sets forth in this Agreement, it shall be 
deemed waived and the matter shall be deemed closed. The C ontractor/employer’s 
failure to respond to a grievance within the specified time limit shall be deemed a 
denial requiring the grievant to timely proceed to the next step. Time limits may only 
be extended by the written consent of the Design Build Contractor, any other 
Contractor involved and the involved Union(s). 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
16 
 
 
 
(e) The Arbitrator's authority shall be limited to the interpretation and application of the 
express terms of this Agreement. The Arbitrator shall not have the authority to restrict 
any right that is reserved to management or to add or subtract from, or to ame nd or 
modify this Agreement. The Arbitrator's jurisdiction is limited to the scope of this 
Agreement and does not extend to any other Project Labor Agreement(s) for the 
Hudson Tunnel Project, or project scopes. In the event of a default or other failure by  
the Union to timely and efficiently proceed during Arbitration, the Arbitrator may, 
after written notice, dismiss the grievance with prejudice. An Arbitration award 
rendered under this Agreement shall not have precedential effect on any other project  
nor on the interpretation or application of the terms of a Schedule A contract, except as 
applicable to Project Work. 
(f) Design Build Contractor shall be notified by the involved C ontractor of all actions at 
Steps 2 and at arbitration and, further, Design Build Contractor shall, upon its own 
request, be permitted to participate fully in all proceedings at such steps. 
(g) The parties designate Martin Scheinman and Howard Edelman as Arbitrators who shall 
serve alternatively as grievances arise, in that order. In the event that neither is 
available to serve, the Design Build Contractor or its representative shall select an 
alternative from a list of  Labor Arbitrators through the American Arbitration 
Association. 
(h) Both the GDC and the Design Build Contractor (even if it is not an involved employer) 
shall be provided with written notice of each step of  the grievance process and may 
intervene at any step, including in an action to enforce or vacate an arbitration award, and 
be heard as a party in interest.  Notwithstanding this provision, no remedy may be issued 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
17 
 
 
 
against GDC unless available under law. The Arbitrator's fee will be split equally among 
the directly involved Contractor and the pertinent Union. 
 
ARTICLE 11 ASSIGNMENTS/RESOLUTION OF DISPUTES 
1. Contractors shall conduct a pre-job meeting for the purpose of discussing the scope 
and schedule of the work and intended work assignments. Except in emergency situations, final 
work assignments shall be made in writing no later than ten (10) days prior to the start of work. 
2. Contractors of whatever tier working under the terms of this Agreement are 
required to notify the Unions of the time, date and place of the pre-job meeting. The Unions will 
then notify all of the local unions of the specifics of the pre-job meeting to ensure that all Unions 
have the opportunity to be in attendance and make their respective jurisdictional claims. 
3. The procedures of the New York  Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional 
Disputes (“New York Plan”) shall apply to the settlement of all jurisdictional disputes involving 
Project Work. All Contractors on this Project agree to assign work in accordance with and be 
bound to the terms and conditions of  the New York Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional 
Disputes in the Construction Industry. All jurisdictional questions between or among the parties 
to this agreement will be settled in accordance with the pr ocedural rules and regulations of the 
New York Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes in the Construction Industry, or any 
successor plan, and all Unions agree that the assignments of the contractor(s)  shall be followed 
until the jurisdictional question is resolved in accordance with this Section. 
4. There will be no Prohibited Activity of any kind arising out of any jurisdictional 
dispute. Pending the resolution of the dispute, the work shall continue uninterrupted and as 
assigned by the  c ontractor. Article 9 applies to jurisdictional strikes in violation of this 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
18 
 
 
 
Agreement. 
5. New York Plan jurisdictional awards shall be final and binding on the disputing 
Unions and the involved C ontractor on this Project only and may be enforced in New York 
Courts with competent jurisdiction (state or federal). 
ARTICLE 12 DURATION 
 This Agreement applies to Project Work until GDC has issued a Certificate of 
Substantial Completion, and the Design Build Contractor achieves substantial completion, once 
the Design Build Contractor satisfies all of the substantial completion conditions required for 
the Project as defined in the Design Build Contract for the Project. Following GDC’s issuance 
of a Certificate of Substantial Completion, this Agreement will have no further force of effect 
and shall terminate.  
ARTICLE 13 EXTENSION OF AREA CONTRACTS 
1. The provisions of Article 9 (no-strikes-no-lockouts) above shall apply for the 
duration of this Agreement notwithstanding the expiration of any local, regional or other 
applicable labor agreement having application at the Project and/or failure of the parties to that 
agreement to reach a new contract. In the event that such a local, regional, or other applicable 
labor agreement does expire and the parties to that agreement have failed to reach agreement on 
a new contract, work will continue on the Project under terms and conditions set forth in this 
Agreement and as required by applicable prevailing wage law. 
2. The Schedule A Agreements shall continue in full force and effect until the 
contractor and/or Union parties to the Schedule A Agreements notify GDC in writing of the 
agreed upon changes in provisions of such agreements which are applicable to the Project, and 
their effective dates. There shall be no violation of Article 9 or any other provisions of this 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
19 
 
 
 
Agreement during the course of such negotiations. Any disputes regarding application to this 
Project shall be resolved through the Arbitration provisions of this Agreement. 
3. It is agreed that any provisions negotiated into the Schedule A Agreements will 
not apply to work on this Project if such provisions are less favorable to this Project than those 
uniformly required of contractors for construction work normally covered by those agreements. 
Any disputes concerning this Section shall be subject exclusively to the Arbitration provisions 
of this Agreement, nor shall any such provision be recognized or applied by the Project if it may 
be construed to apply exclusively, or predominantly, to work covered by this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 14 – WAGES AND BENEFITS 
1. All employees covered by this Agreement shall be classified in accordance with 
the work performed and paid the hourly wage rates applicable for those classifications as required 
by the applicable prevailing wage laws and the applicable Schedule A Agreements. 
2. 
The Contractor agrees to pay on a timely basis contributions on behalf of all employees 
covered by this Agreement to those established jointly trusteed employee benefit funds designated in the 
applicable Schedule A Agreements (in the appropriate Schedule A Agreement amounts).  The 
Contractors agree to be bound by the written terms and policies of the legally established jointly 
trusteed Trust Funds with respect to Project Work performed for those employees to whom this 
Agreement applies
. 
ARTICLE 15 - HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUM PAYMENTS, SHIFTS AND 
HOLIDAYS 
1. The standard work week shall consist of forty (40 ) hours of work at straight time 
rates, Monday through Friday, eight (8) hours per day, plus one-half (½) hour unpaid lunch period. 
Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement , a Contract or may schedule shifts as 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
20 
 
 
 
permitted by  any requirements of the Manhattan Tunnel Project  final environment impact 
statement and permit requirements, including, without limitation, a work week that includes twelve 
(12) hour shifts; or a four (4) day work week (“4/10s”) , ten (10) hours per day at straight time 
rates, plus one half (½) hour unpaid lunch.  
2. Saturday Work. The Contractor may schedule a Saturday workday and such time 
shall be scheduled and paid at time and one half (1½).    
3. Make-Up Day. When conditions beyond the control of a Contractor, such as severe 
weather, power failure, fire, or natural disaster, prevent the performance of Project Work on a 
regularly scheduled work day, the Contractor may, on a craft -by-craft basis, schedule another 
weekday or Saturday (where on 4/10s) or schedule Saturday (where on 5/8s) during that calendar 
week in which a workday was lost, at straight time pay provided it does not actually constitute 
overtime for the employees, as set forth in Section 6 below.  With respect to Local Union No. 40 
of Bridge, Structural Ornamental, and Reinforcing Iron Workers, AFL-CIO, the Schedule A shall 
control make-up day scheduling and pay.  With respect to the District Council of New York City 
and Vicinity of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, all Schedule A 
make-up day provisions shall control. 
4. In accordance with project needs, there shall be flexible start times with advance 
notice from contractor to the Union.  The Day Shift shall commence between the hours of 6:00 
a.m. and 9:00 a.m., and shall end between the hours of 2:30 and 5:30 for an eight (8) hour day and 
up to 7:30pm for a ten (10) hour day.  The Second/ Evening Shift shall commence between the 
hours of 3:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m., unless different times are necessitated by GDC’s phasing plans 
on specific projects.  The Night Shift shall commence between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 2:00 
a.m., unless different times are necessitated by GDC’s phasing plans on specific projects.  Subject 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
21 
 
 
 
to the foregoing, starting and quitting times shall occur at the Project Work site designated by the 
contractor.  Each shift shall have a working Shop Steward. 
5. Notice - Contractors shall provide not less than five (5)  days prior notice to the 
Union involved as to the work week and work hour schedules to be worked or such lesser notice 
as may be mutually agreed upon. 
6. Overtime shall be paid for any work (i) over an employee’s regularly scheduled 
work day, i.e., work over eight (8) hours in a day where 5/8s is scheduled or work over ten (10) 
hours in a day where 4/10s is scheduled, and (ii) over forty (40) hours in a wee k. Overtime shall 
be paid at time and one half (1½) Monday through Saturday.  Overtime for any work performed 
on Sunday shall be paid at the rate set forth in the applicable Schedule A Agreement There shall 
be no stacking or pyramiding of overtime pay unde r any circumstances.  There will be no 
restriction upon the Contractor’s scheduling of overtime or the nondiscriminatory designation of 
employees to work overtime, including the use of employees, other than those who have worked 
the regular or scheduled work week, at the rates in the applicable Schedule A  Agreements.  The 
Contractor shall have the right to schedule work so as to minimize overtime, or schedule overtime 
as to some, but not all, of the crafts, or whether or not to schedule overtime of a continuous nature. 
With respect to the District Council of New York City and Vicinity of the United Brotherhood of 
Carpenters and Joiners of America, the Shop Steward shall have the right of first refusal. 
7. Flexible Schedules - Scheduling of shift work, including Saturday and Sunday 
work, shall be within the discretion of the Contractor in order to meet Project Work schedules and 
existing Project Work conditions.  It is not necessary to work a day shift in or der to schedule a 
second shift or third shift, or to schedule all of the crafts when only certain crafts or employees are 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
22 
 
 
 
needed. Shifts must be scheduled with not less than five workdays’ notice to the Union or such 
lesser notice as may be mutually agreed upon. 
8. Second and/or Third Shifts – All employees who perform work on a second or third 
shift shall be paid a 10% shift differential, or the shift differential set forth in the applicable 
Schedule A Agreement, whichever is lower.   
9. Holidays - There shall be only nine (9) recognized/observed holidays for Project 
Work: 
   New Year’s Day 
  Martin Luther King Day President’s Day 
  Memorial Day Veteran’s Day  
  Labor Day  Thanksgiving Day 
  Independence Day Christmas Day 
All said holidays shall be observed on the calendar date except those holidays which occur on 
Saturday shall be observed on the previous Friday and those that occur on Sunday shall be 
observed on the following Monday. Regular holiday pay, if any, for work performed on the nine  
recognized holidays shall be in accordance with the applicable Schedule A  Agreement for work 
performed on a holiday, even where the holiday differs from those recognized in the Schedule A 
Agreements.  
10. A Contractor may, if considered necessary for the protection of life and/or safety 
of employees or others, suspend all or a portion of Project Work.  In such instances, employees 
will be paid for actual time worked, except that when a Contractor requests that employees remain 
at the Project Work  site available for work, employees will be paid for that time at their hourly 
rate of pay. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
23 
 
 
 
ARTICLE 16 APPRENTICES  
Recognizing the need to maintain continuing supportive programs designed to develop 
adequate numbers of competent workers in the construction industry and to provide craft entry 
opportunities for minorities, women and economically disadvantaged non- minority males, 
Contractors will employ apprentices in their respective crafts to perform such work as is within 
their capabilities and which is customarily performed by the craft in which they are indentured.  
Contractors may utilize appr entices and such other appropriate classifications in the maximum 
ratio permitted by the New York State Department of Labor (“NYSDOL”) or the maximum 
allowed per trade.  Apprentices and such other classifications as are appropriate shall be employed 
in a manner consistent with the provisions of the appropriate Schedule A Agreements Agreement. 
Should a c ontractor request that apprentices be provided for Project Work, the referring Union 
shall comply with that request so long as it is consistent with the maximum ratios permitted by 
NYSDOL. The Unions shall use good faith efforts to make apprentices available on Project Work 
upon request by c ontractors and within the limits specified by the NYSDOL, the P arties will 
continue to engage in all reasonable efforts to improve the utilization of apprentices on Project 
Work.  
ARTICLE 17 MANAGED CARE AND ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION 
PROGRAM FOR OCCUPATIONAL INJURIES AND DISEASES 
GDC, the contractors and the Unions recognize the benefit of providing employees who 
incur compensable injuries or suffer occupational diseases as defined in the New York State 
Workers’ Compensation Law and any other applicable law with improved access to quality 
medical care, and to reduce the frequency and extent of disputes regarding benefit entitlement. 
A 
system for medical care delivery , including, without limitation , utilizing a Preferred Provider 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
24 
 
 
 
Organization (“PPO”), and for benefit entitlement dispute resolution of such injuries and diseases of 
(“Managed Care/ ADR Program ”), will be designed and participation in the Managed Care/ ADR 
Program will be mandatory. The terms of the Managed Care/ADR Program will be memorialized and, 
upon agreement of the parties, attached to this Agreement as Exhibit “4.”  
 
ARTICLE 18 PROJECT LOGISTICS  
GDC, the contractors and the Unions recognize the Project is a package of the larger 
construction plan known as the Hudson Tunnel Project that contemplates construction in both the 
State of New York and New Jersey. It is agreed by all parties that t he Project worksite is in the 
State of New York  and this Agreement and the Schedule A Agreements exclusively govern the 
Project. S taging and/or administrative site s (including barging of equipment) for  the Project 
located outside of New York shall be considered an extension of the Project Worksite and within  
the State of New York for jurisdictional purposes. Should any dispute arise regarding these issues, 
such a dispute will be resolved in conformity with Article 10.   
ARTICLE 19 HELMETS TO HARDHATS 
1. The contractors and the Unions recognize a desire to facilitate the entry into the 
building and construction trades of veterans who are interested in careers in the building and 
construction industry. Contractors and Unions agree to utilize the services of New York Helmets 
to Hardhats program to serve as a resource for preliminary orientation, assessment of 
construction aptitude, referral to apprenticeship programs or hiring halls, counseling and 
mentoring, support network, employment opportunities and other needs as identified by the 
parties. 
2. The Design Build Contractor, any other contractors and the Unions agree to make 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
25 
 
 
 
a good faith effort to coordinate with the Helmets to Hardhats program to create and maintain an 
integrated database of veterans interested in working on this Project and of apprenticeship and 
employment opportunities for this Project. To the extent permitted by law, the Unions will give 
credit to such veterans for bona fide, provable past experience. 
ARTICLE 20 COUNTERPARTS AND FACSIMILE TRANSMISSION 
 This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and any party hereto 
may execute any such counterpart, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed 
to be an original, and all of which counterparts taken together shall constitute but one and the 
same instrument. Any signatures delivered by a party by facsimile transmission shall be 
deemed an original signature hereto. 
ARTICLE 21 ENTIRE UNDERSTANDING 
 The Parties agree that the total results of their bargaining with respect to the subject 
matter of this Agreement are embodied in the Agreement and neither party is required to render 
any performance not set forth in the wording of this Agreement. This Agreement may be 
amended only by written agreement signed by each of the parties to this Agreement. 
 
The parties have caused this Agreement to be executed and effective as of the __ day of 
September, 2024.  
Gateway Development Commission  
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Kris Kolluri  
Chief Executive Officer  
 
District Council of New York and Vicinity of the Union Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners 
of America 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
26 
 
 
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Joseph Geiger  
Executive Secretary Treasurer  
 
Local Union No. 3 International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, AFL-CIO 
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Christopher Erikson  
Business Manager  
 
Local Union No. 40 of Bridge, Structural Ornamental, and Reinforcing Iron Workers, AFL-
CIO 
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Daniel Doyle 
Business Manager  
 
Building, Concrete, Excavating & Common Laborers Local No. 731 
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Carmine D’Amato  
Business Manager 
 
Operative Plasterers’ and Cement Masons’ International Association, Local 780 
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Michael Rendina 
President  
 
  
 
Teamsters, Local Union No. 282 
 
By: _____________________________   Date: ______________ 
Thomas Gesualdi  
President  
 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
27 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 1 - LETTER OF ASSENT 
 The undersigned party confirms that it agrees to be a party to and be bound by the 
Project Memorandum of Agreement for the Manhattan Tunnel Project (“Agreement”) as such 
Agreement may, from time to time, be amended by the parties or interpreted pursuant to its 
terms. The terms of the Agreement, its Schedules, and Exhibits are hereby incorporated by 
reference herein. 
 The undersigned, as a Contractor or Subcontractor (hereinafter Contractor) on the 
Project as defined in the Agreement (“Project”), for and in consideration of the award to it of a 
contract to perform work on said Project, and in further consideration of the mutual promises 
made in the Agreement, a copy of which was received and is acknowledged, hereby: 
1. Accepts and agrees to be bound by the terms and conditions of the Agreement, together 
with any and all schedules and exhibits; amendments and supplements now existing or 
which are later made thereto.  
2. Agrees to be bound by the legally established local trust agreements sets forth in the 
Agreement.  
3. Authorizes the parties to such local trust agreements to appoint trustees and successor 
trustees to administer the trust funds and hereby ratifies and accepts the trustees so 
appointed as if made by the Contractor. 
4. Certifies that it has no commitments or agreements that would preclude its full and 
complete compliance with the terms and conditions of the Agreement . The Contractor 
agrees to employ labor that can work in harmony with all other labor on the Project and 
shall require labor harmony from every lower tier subcontractor it engages to work on 
the Project.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
28 
 
 
 
5. Agrees to secure from any Contractor(s), which is or becomes a s ubcontractor (of any 
tier), to it, a duly executed Agreement to be bound in form identical to this document. 
 
 
            
Signature        Date 
 
      
Print name 
 
           
Title and Organization 
 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBT 2 
[Project Technical Description]  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
2 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 3 – INDEX OF SCHEDULE A AGREEMENTS 
Union Current Agreement w/ 
Building, Concrete, Excavating & Common Laborers 
Local 731 Independent 
Building, Concrete, Excavating & Common Laborers 
Local 731 
Members of the General 
Contractors Association of New 
York, Inc. 
International Brotherhood of Teamsters, Local 282, High 
Rise Contract 
Building Contractors Association 
& Independents 
Local Union Number 40 & 361 of Bridge, Structural 
Ornamental and Reinforcing Iron Workers AFL-CIO Independent 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Heavy Carpenters 
GCA 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Dockbuilders Local No. 1556 
GCA 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Dockbuilders Local 1556 
Independent 
The District Council of Carpenters of New York City and 
Vicinity for Dockbuilders Local Union No. 1556 
Independent New Jersey Dockbuilder Agreement  
 
Independent  
 
The District Council of Carpenters of New York City and 
Vicinity for Dockbuilders Local Union No. 1556  
 
CCLENJ and ACCNJ  
 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Millwright Local 740 
Independent 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
3 
 
 
 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Timbermen Local 1556 
Independent 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Timbermen Local 1556 
GCA 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Heavy Carpenters 
Independent 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America 
The Hoisting Trade Association 
of New York, Inc. 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America 
The Test Boring Association 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America 
Building Contractors Association 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America 
The Association of Wall-Ceiling 
& Carpentry Industries of New 
York, Incorporated 
The District Council of NYC and Vicinity of the United 
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America  
New York City Millwright 
Association 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners 
Greater New York Floor 
Coverers Association 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Carpenters 
Association of Architectural 
Metal & Glass 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Carpenters 
Association of Concrete 
Contractors of NY 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
4 
 
 
 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America for Building Construction Carpenters 
Independent 
The District Council of New York City and Vicinity of 
the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America Independent Resilient Floor Coverers 
Agreement  
Independent 
The Cement Masons’ Union, Local 780 Cement League 
 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
5 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT 4 – MANAGED CARE & ADR PROGRAM  
To be added 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXHIBIT B 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN THE INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING 
ENGINEERS LOCAL 14-14B, AFL-CIO, THE INTERNATIONAL UNION OF OPERATING ENGINEERS LOCAL 15, 
15A, 15C, 15D, 15G & 15H, AFL-CIO AND THE GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
 
 
 
 
MANHATTAN TUNNEL PROJECT 
 
This memorandum of understanding is entered into by and between the International Union of Operating 
Engineers Local 14-14B, AFL-CIO (“Local 14”), the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 15, 15A, 
15C, 15D, 15G & 15H, AFL-CIO (“Local 15”), the Gateway Development Commission (“GDC”) and [insert 
name of employer of Local 14 & Local 15 represented employees] (“ ”) (collectively the “Parties”) on this 
  day of  , 2024. 
 
The Parties agree that, for work performed on the Manhattan Tunnel Project, as described in the attached 
“Project Description” (the “Project”), which is part of a larger construction plan known as the Hudson Tunnel 
Project, the terms and conditions of employment of Local 14 and Local 15 represented employees of [insert name 
of employer of Local 14 & Local 15 represented employees] shall be in accordance with Local 14’s and Local 15’s 
collective bargaining agreements with the General Contractors Association of New York, Inc. (the “GCA 
Agreements”) and/or such other association collective bargaining agreements to which Local 14 and/or Local 15 
are parties, as may become applicable, together with the following terms: 
 
1. Local 14 and Local 15 agree to participate in a Managed Care and Alternative Dispute Resolution 
program which is to be designed pursuant to Article 17 of the Project Memorandum of Agreement (the 
“MOA”), but subject to their right to opt out of the same upon written notice to [insert name of employer 
of Local 14 & Local 15 represented employees].  
2. Local 14 and Local 15 agree to Article 9 entitled “Work Stoppages and Lockouts” of the MOA with the 
exception that such terms of the no strike language shall not apply upon the expiration of the GCA 
Agreements and/or such other applicable association agreements to which Local 14 and/or Local 15 are 
parties, but such terms shall resume in force and effect upon execution of new applicable collective 
bargaining agreement(s) and no Local 14 and/or Local 15 represented employees shall be displaced as a 
result of any action they take upon expiration of the GCA Agreements and/or such other applicable 
association agreements to which Local 14 and/or Local 15 are parties. 
3. Local 14 and 15 agree to Article 18 entitled “Project Logistics” of the MOA but by doing so neither Local 
relinquishes any of its jurisdiction as to the work to be performed on the Project and the Parties all agree 
that nothing contained in Article 18 shall allow for the assignment of Local 14 and Local 15 work to any 
other labor union. 
4. [insert name of employer of Local 14 & Local 15 represented employees] and the GDC agree that any 
disputes or conflicts arising as between the terms of the GCA Agreements and/or such other applicable 
association agreements to which Local 14 and/or Local 15 are parties and the PLA shall be governed 
solely by the terms and conditions of the GCA Agreements and/or such other applicable association 
agreements to which Local 14 and/or Local 15 are parties. 
5. Unless specifically modified herein, all other terms and conditions of employment of the Local 14 
members and Local 15 members working on the Project shall be governed in their entirety by the GCA 
Agreements and/or such other applicable association agreements. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
 
 
Acknowledged and agreed to by the following four (4) parties: 
 
International Union of Operating Engineers International Union of Operating Engineers 
Local 14-14B, AFL-CIO Local 15, 15A, 15C, 15D, 15G & 15H, AFL-CIO 
 
By:   By:   
Edwin L. Christian, Business Manager  Thomas A. Callahan, President & Business Manager 
 
[insert name of employer of Local 14 & Gateway Development Commission 
Local 15 represented employees] 
By:   By:   
[insert name and title]  Kris Kolluri, Chief Executive Officer 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

 
EXH
IBIT C 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH 
AMERICA, LABORERS’ LOCAL UNION NO. 147 AND THE GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 9/18/2024 
 
 
 
 
 
MANHATTAN TUNNEL PROJECT 
 
This memorandum of understanding is entered into by and between the Laborers’ International Union of 
North America, Laborers’ Local Union No. 147 (“Local 147”), the Gateway Development Commission 
(“GDC”) and [insert name of employer of Local 147 represented employees] (“ ”) (collectively the “Parties”) on 
this __ day of  ________, 2024. 
 
The Parties agree that, for work performed on the Manhattan Tunnel Project (the “Project”), which is part 
of a larger construction plan known as the Hudson Tunnel Project, the terms and conditions of employment of 
Local 147 represented employees of [insert name of employer of Local 147 represented employees] shall be in 
accordance with Local 147’s collective bargaining agreement with the General Contractors Association of New 
York, Inc. (the “GCA Agreement”), together with the following terms: 
 
1. Local 147 agrees to Article 8 entitled “Management’s Rights” of the Project Memorandum of 
Agreement (the “MOA”). 
2. Local 147 agrees to Article 9 entitled “Work Stoppages and Lockouts” of the MOA. 
3. Local 147 agrees to Article 15 entitled “Hours of Work, Premium Payments, Shifts and Holidays” of 
the MOA. 
4. Local 147 agrees to Article 16 entitled “Apprentices” of the MOA. 
5. Local 147 agrees to participate in a Managed Care and Alternative Dispute Resolution program which 
is to be designed pursuant to Article 17 of the MOA.  
6. Local 147 agrees to Article 18 entitled “Project Logistics” of the MOA but by doing so does not 
relinquish any of its jurisdiction as to the work to be performed on the Project and the Parties all agree 
that nothing contained in Article 18 shall allow for the assignment of Local 147 work to any other labor 
union. 
7. Unless specifically modified herein, all other terms and conditions of employment of the Local 147 
members working on the Project shall be governed in their entirety by the GCA Agreement. 
 
Acknowledged and agreed to by the following three (3) parties: 
 
 International Union of North America, Laborers’
 Local Union No. 147 
 
  By:  
  Richard Fitzsimmons, Business Manager 
 
[insert name of employer of Local 147  
 represented employees] 
By:   By:   
[insert name and title]  Kris Kolluri, Chief Executive Officer 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXHIB
IT D 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN DISTRICT COUNCIL OF NEW YORK CITY AND VICINITY 
OF THE UNITED BROTHERHOOD OF CARPENTERS AND JOINERS OF AMERICA AND THE GATEWAY 
DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Approval by GDC Board of Commissioners - Draft 09/18/2024 
 
 
MANHATTAN TUNNEL PROJECT 
 
This memorandum of understanding is entered into by and between the District Council 
of New York City and Vicinity of the United Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of 
America (the “District Council”) and the Gateway Development Commission (“GDC”) on this 
__ day of September, 2024. 
 
 The Parties agree that the District Council’s agreement to the provisions concerning 
Disadvantaged Business Enterprises (“DBEs”) as set forth in Article 7 of the Manhattan Tunnel 
Project Site Agreement shall not extend to and does not include Article 7, Paragraph 3, 
Subparagraph C. 
 
 The Parties further agree that all contractors, including DBEs, within the District Council’s 
jurisdiction on this Project shall sign the Letter of Assent. 
 
Acknowledged and agreed to by the following two (2) parties: 
 
District Council of New York City  Gateway Development Commission 
Vicinity of the United Brotherhood of  
Carpenters and Joiners of America   
By: ___________________________ By: __________________________ 
Joseph Geiger, Executive Secretary   Kris Kolluri, Chief Executive Officer 
Treasurer 
 
 
 
 