Ga
teway Development Commission 
Regular Meeting of the Board  
In-Person (New York) 
January 16, 2025 
MIN
UTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Amy Rosen 
Janine Bauer 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
Marie Therese Dominguez 
AMTRAK 
Anthony R. Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. Ca
ll to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 2:00 PM.
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk advised t hat public comments were bein g solicited in-p erson and virtually
and audio of the meeting was being live streamed from the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and 
that a form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway Program website for those who 
wished to submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting Secretary Sommer conducted a roll call and confirmed that all Commissioners were present 
with Commissioner Rosen joining at 2:11 pm, and that there was a quorum.  
Acting Secretary Sommer stated that adequate notice of today’s public meeting of the Board of 
Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s enabling 
legislation. 
II. Report on Minutes of the December 12, 2024 Meeting
Acting Secretary Sommer reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of December 12 ,
2024 were delivered in electronic form  to the Governors of New York and New Jersey on December 12, 
2024, and that the time for action by the Governors of New York and New Jersey expired at midnight on 
December 27, 2024, at which time the actions recorded in the Minutes went into full force and effect.  
III. Public Comments
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk announced that the Commission had solicited virtual comments from the
public in advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for soliciting these comments 
was posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout today’s meeting.  
There was one (1) written comment received by 5:00 PM on January 15, 2025: 
Commenter Topic 
Joshua Berman, Regional Plan Association Hudson Tunnel Project 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2 
Co-
Chair Grewal-Virk noted that all written comments received by 5:00 p.m. on January 15, 
2025 before the meeting were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and 
would be filed in the Commission’s records after the meeting.  
The f
ollowing individuals provided in-person public comments during the January 16, 2025 Board 
Meeting:  
Commenter Topic 
Jerry Keenan, Alliance for Action Hudson Tunnel Project 
Joshua Berman, Regional Plan Association Hudson Tunnel Project 
Carlos Scissura, NY Building Congress Hudson Tunnel Project 
Chris Boylan, General Contractors Association Hudson Tunnel Project 
Sam Turvey, Rethink New York City Hudson Tunnel Project 
Ther
e were no written comments received on the day of the meeting. 
IV. Ac
tion Items 
#0125-01:  Authorization of Gateway Development Commission’s Annual Board Meeting Schedule for 
Calendar Year 2025 
The Boa
rd acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Barbas made a motion, and Commissioner Bauer 
seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached 
Resolution. 
#0125-02: Authorization of Appointment of Thomas Prendergast as Chief Executive Officer 
The Boa
rd acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Co-Chair Grewal Virk, Co-
Chair Glen, Vice Chair Coscia, Commissioner Dominguez, Commissioner Bauer and Commissioner Barbas 
commented on this Resolution.  Commissioner Dominguez made a motion, and Commissioner Bauer 
seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached 
Resolution. 
V. Adj
ournment 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that there was no further business to conduct and then motioned to 
adjourn the meeting. U pon the motion being duly made by Vice-Chair Coscia and seconded  by 
Commissioner Barbas the meeting was adjourned at approximately 2:38 PM.  
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Mar
ia C. Anderson  
Maria C. Anderson, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adop ted 01.16.2025 
#0125-01: E
STABLISHING THE GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION’S ANNUAL BOARD 
MEETING SCHEDULE FOR CALENDAR YEAR 2025  
The Gateway Development Commission (the “Commission”) is a public authority and 
government sponsored authority created through the enactment of parallel legislation by the 
States of New York and New Jersey codiﬁed as the Gateway Development Commission Act 
(2019 N.Y . Sess. Laws Ch. 108 and 2019 N.J. Sess. Law Serv. Ch. 195) (collectively, the “GDC Act”). 
The Commission’s Open Meetings Policy, Bylaws, and the GDC Act provide procedures 
related to the timing, public notice, and location of meetings of the Commission’s Board of 
Commissioners (the “Board”) to allow for public participation and protocols that allow for 
meetings to be conducted in an eﬃcient and eﬀective manner.  
In accordance with provisions of the GDC Act, Section 4.01 of the Commission’s Bylaws 
provides that “[t]he Board shall meet regularly as it may determine. The time and place for all 
Meetings shall be determined by Co-Chairpersons; provided that, to the maximum extent 
practicable, Meetings shall be held on an alternating basis in New Jersey and New York.” 
 Section IV of the Commission’s Open Meetings Policy requires that the Board “will 
establish a schedule of meetings and hold special meetings in accordance with the 
Commission’s Bylaws,” and that a schedule of meetings of the Board “will be included in a 
public calendar of meetings posted on the Commission’s website, updated as appropriate.” 
In accordance with Section IV of the Commission’s Open Meetings Policy, the 
Commission desires to adopt the annual Board meeting schedule for calendar year 2025, as 
further detailed in Exhibit A.  
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Co-Chair 
Glen, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice-Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner 
Bauer, and Commissioner Dominguez voting in favor:  
RESOLVED, in accordance with Section IV(B)(1) of the Commission’s Open Meetings 
Policy, the Commission hereby adopts the annual Board meeting schedule for calendar year 
2025, as attached hereto as Exhibit A 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adop ted 01.16.2025 
EXHIBI
T A SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS AND LOCATIONS 
New Jersey New York 
Unless otherwise indicated in public notices 
to be issued in accordance with the GDC Act, 
the regular meetings of the Gateway 
Development Commission’s Board of 
Commissioners will be held in-person at the 
NJ Transit Board Room at 2 Gateway Center, 
Newark, New Jersey, and live streamed via 
www.gatewayprogram.org on the following 
dates: 
Feb
ruary 3, 2025 
April 14, 2025 
June 20, 2025 
August 20, 2025 
October 28, 2025 
December 15, 2025 
Unless otherwise indicated in public notices 
to be issued in accordance with the GDC Act, 
the regular meetings of the Gateway 
Development Commission’s Board of 
Commissioners will be held in-person at the 
Port Authority Board Room at 4 World Trade 
Center, 23rd Floor, New York, New York, and 
live streamed via www.gatewayprogram.org 
on the following dates:  
Januar
y 16, 2025 
March 18, 2025 
May 16, 2025 
July 28, 2025 
September 16, 2025 
November 20, 2025 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopte d  01.16.2025 
#0125-02: APPOINTMENT OF OFFICER 
The Gateway Development Commission Act (“GDC Act”) holds that the officers of the 
Gateway Development Commission (“Commission” or “GDC”) shall include a Chief Executive 
Officer (“CEO”), among other officers. See N.J.S.A. 32:36 -4(b); 2019 N.Y. Laws Ch. 108,  Section 
2(3)(g).  
The GDC Act also provides that the Commission has the power to “[a]ppoint, employ, 
contract with, and compensate such officers, … as the business of the Commission may require 
…” N.J.S.A. 32:36 -8(l), 2019 N.Y. Laws Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(l)  
Section 3.01 and 3.03 of the Bylaws of the Commission adopted March 5, 2021 (amended 
on July 12, 2021 and December 12, 2024) require the Board to appoint a CEO as an officer of the 
Commission who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.  
Accordingly, the Commissioners of GDC are entrusted with the authority to appoint a 
CEO. 
After a thorough search process that included a B oard of C ommissioners-led S earch 
Committee (“Committee”) and the hiring of an Executive Search firm, the Committee is 
recommending the hiring of Thomas Prendergast for the position of CEO.  
The search process included extensive interviews with Thomas Prendergast, as well as 
consultation with the Offices of the Governors of New Jersey and New York and National 
Passenger Railroad Corporation  regarding qualifications to be CEO and have otherwise 
extensively reviewed Thomas Prendergast’s qualifications. Based on all the foregoing, the 
Committee has found Thomas Prendergast qualified to serve as CEO.  
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Co -Chair 
Glen, Co -Chair Grewal- Virk, Vice -Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Bauer, 
Commissioner Dominguez, and Commissioner Rosen voting in favor:  
RESOLVED, that the Board of Commissioners hereby appoints Thomas Prendergast  to 
serve in the capacity of Chief Executive Officer of the Commission, with such responsibilities and 
authority described within the Bylaws and any policies promulgated by the Board of 
Commissioners. 