  
G
ateway Development Commission 
Regular Meeting of the Board  
In-Person (New York) 
February 3, 2025 
MINUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Amy Rosen 
Janine Bauer 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
AMTRAK 
Anthony R. Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. Call to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Glen at approximately 12:00 PM.
Co-Chair Glen  advised that public comments were being solicited in-person and virtually  and
audio of the meeting was being live streamed from the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Glen noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and that a 
form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway Program website for those who wished 
to submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting Secretary Anderson  conducted a roll call and confirmed that all Commissioners were 
present except for Commissioner Dominguez, and that there was a quorum.  
Acting Secretary Anderson stated that adequate notice of today’s public meeting of the Board of 
Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s enabling 
legislation. 
II. R eport on Minutes of the January 16, 2025  Meeting
Acting Secretary Anderson reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of January 16, 2025
were delivered in electronic form to the Governors of New York and New Jersey on January 16, 2025, and 
that the time for action by the Governors of New York and New Jersey expired at midnight on January 31, 
2025, at which time the actions recorded in the Minutes went into full force and effect.  
III. G
ateway Program Update
The Commission’s Acting Chief Technical Officer, Hamed Nejad, provided an update on the projects within 
the Hudson Tunnel Project under construction, and a summary of the Manhattan Tunnel project to be 
awarded a contract.  Deputy Chief of Procurement Anthony Gardner provided an update on the 
procurement for the Manhattan Tunnel Project.  
Following the presentation, Co-Chair Glen thanked Mr. Nejad and Mr. Gardner for the update, and there 
were no questions or comments from the Board. 
IV. P
ublic Comments

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2
 
  
Co-Chair Glen announced that the Commission had solicited virtual comments from the public in 
advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for soliciting these comments was 
posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout today’s meeting.  
Th
ere was one (1) written comment received by 5:00 PM on February 2, 2025: 
Commenter Topic 
Joshua Berman, Regional Plan Association Hudson Tunnel Project 
C
o-Chair Glen noted that all written comments received by 5:00 p.m. on February 2, 2025 
before the meeting were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and would 
be filed in the Commission’s records after the meeting.  
T
he following individuals provided in-person public comments during the February 3, 2025 Board 
Meeting:  
Commenter Topic 
Joshua Berman, Regional Plan Association Hudson Tunnel Project 
Sam Turvey, Rethink NYC Hudson Tunnel Project 
Krowker Direny, Around the World LLC Theft Prevention 
Joseph Clift Hudson Tunnel Project 
Christopher Boylan, General Contractors 
Association 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Th
ere was one written comment received on the day of the meeting from the following: 
Commenter Topic 
Maddie DeCerbo, REBNY Hudson Tunnel Project 
V. Action Items
#0225-01: Authorization of Award of Contract GDC-25-007-HTP, Performance of Expert Professional 
Design-Build Services for the Manhattan Tunnel Project 
Th
e Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution.  Vice Chair Coscia made a motion, and Commissioner Rosen 
seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached 
Resolution. 
#0225-02: Approval of Market Case Estimate for the Manhattan Tunnel Project 
Th
e Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioner Rosen made 
a motion, and Vice Chair Coscia seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is 
referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#0225-03:  Hudson Tunnel Project – Manhattan Tunnel Project – Authorization to Execute Modified 
Memorandum of Understanding to Project Labor Agreement 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

3
 
  
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Vice Chair Coscia made a 
motion, and Co-Chair Grewal-Virk seconded the motion.  The Resolution was approved.  The roll call 
vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#0225-04:  Hudson Tunnel Project – New Jersey Surface Alignment (P3) Project – Authorization of 
Stipend Program 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioner Bauer made 
a motion, and Commissioner Rosen seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call 
vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
VI. Adjournment
Co-Chair Glen noted that there was no further business to conduct and then motioned to adjourn
the meeting. Upon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair Glen and seconded by Commissioner Rosen 
the meeting was adjourned at approximately 12:35 PM.  
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Maria C. Anderson 
Maria C. Anderson, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 2/3/2025 
 
1 
 
#0225-01: AUTHORIZ ATION OF  AWARD OF CONTRACT GDC-25-007-HTP, PERFORMANCE OF EXPERT 
PROFESSIONAL DESIGN- BUILD SERVICES FOR THE MANHATTAN TUNNEL PROJECT 
 
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between the State 
of New Jersey (“ New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“ New York”) and throughout the Northeast 
Corridor (the "NEC"), New Jersey and New York created the Gateway Development Commission ("GDC") 
through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the Gateway Development 
Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out 
any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose which 
the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with the federal 
government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New York, with any local 
government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, commission or authority of any one 
or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or 
corporation, or with any one or more of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A.  32:36-
8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in part any 
power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to which the Board 
deems appropriate.” 
 
Accordingly, on February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation (“ Amtrak”), and GDC (collectively, the “ PDA Parties ”) entered into an Agreement (the 
“Project Development Agreement ” or “ PDA”) in order to establish their respective roles and 
responsibilities with respect to the funding, financing, right-of-way acquisition, procurement, delivery, and 
operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”). 
 
As further described in the PDA, the HTP  has been organized into certain work packages, which 
may be updated or changed from time-to-time. The Manhattan Tunnel Project (the “Manhattan Tunnel 
Project”) is a work package of the HTP, to be performed primarily pursuant to a design-build contract and 
includes but is not limited to the following work located entirely in New York:  (a) grouting from within 
12th Avenue and Temporary Access Shafts and/or street-levels, (b) designing and advancing SEM tunneling 
operations, including (i) SEM sequences, procedures, and incremental excavation advance lengths; (ii) 
sizing SEM tunnel geometries to accommodate future TBM operations; (iii) removal of encountered 
obstructions (e.g., timber piles and abandoned steel pile foundations); and (iv) installation of required 
initial ground support systems,  (c) beneath 12
th Avenue/Route 9A, infilling completed SEM tunnels and 
Temporary Access Shaft access shafts with controlled low strength materials and soil backfill materials,  (d) 
constructing a final cast -in-place reinforced concrete tunnel liner between the east side of 12th Avenue 
Shaft and the interface with HYCC-3.    
 
On August 31, 2023 , a Request for Qualifications GDC23-005 was issued by GDC soliciting 
Statements of Qualifications (“SOQ”) from entities interested in designing and constructing the Manhattan 
Tunnel Project.  SOQs  were submitted from the following three (3) firms: Frontier Kemper Constructors 
Tutor Perini JV, Gateway Tunnel Partners (JV between Halmar and FCC Construction) and Walsh, Skanska, 
Traylor JV.  On August 1, 2024, GDC issued a federally compliant Request for Proposals GDC23-005 to these 
three (3) firms to provide design and construction services . Proposals were received on November 22, 
2024 from all three (3) firms. The proposals were reviewed by an Evaluation Panel consisting of technical 
experts and representatives of GDC, the State of New York, NJ TRANSIT Corporation, the Port Authority of 
New York and New Jersey,  and Amtrak. The Evaluation Panel selected Frontier -Kemper-Tutor-Perini JV 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 2/3/2025 
 
2 
 
through a competitive evaluation of technical and price proposals (together, with the Contract Documents 
issued as part of the RFP process, referred to as (“Contract GDC-25-007-HTP”)). 
 
Article 12.05 of the PDA permits a contractor to propose an alternative technical concept (“ATC”) 
subject to review by the GDC Technical Standards Committee, and recommendation to the Board.  The 
PDA requires all ATCs recommended for award at the conclusion of the procurement process be subject 
to the approval of the GDC Board at such time. 
 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolutions were adopted, with Co-Chair Glen, Co-
Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice Chair Coscia, Commissioner Bauer, Commissioner Barbas, and Commissioner Rosen 
voting in favor: 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to enter into Contract GDC-25-007-
HTP with Frontier-Kemper-Tutor-Perini JV at the Contract Price of $1,177,700,000 and further authorizing 
an additional amount equal to  twenty percent (20%) of the Contract Price for  contingencies 
(“Contingency”).  
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Board authorizes Frontier-Kemper-Tutor-Perini JV's alternative technical 
concept ATC#1 consisting of vertical ground stabilization in Route 9A / 12th Avenue and digger shields for 
tunnel mining and temporary shaft elimination. 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is delegated the responsibility and authority to 
authorize and approve, without further Board approval,  any amendments or change orders to Contract 
GDC-25-007 that do not exceed an increase in the Contract Price by 10% and do not exceed 50% of the 
Contingency; and further that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is delegated the responsibility and authority 
to authorize and approve  any amendments or changes to Contract GDC -25-007 utilizing the remaining 
50% of Contingency provided however that the CEO may not take such action without Board approval to 
increase Contract GDC -25-007 where the amount of the amendment or change order is in excess of 
$10,000,000. 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to issue a notice to proceed for 
Contract GDC-25-007-HTP, and take any and all other actions consistent with this resolution, and to make, 
execute, and deliver in the name and on behalf of GDC, Contract GDC -25-007-HTP, and to take all other 
steps necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of Contract GDC-25-007-HTP. 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all other actions 
consistent with this resolution, and to make, execute, and deliver in the name and on behalf of GDC, 
Contract GDC-25-007-HTP, and to take all other steps necessary to effectuate, enforce and/or comply with 
the terms and conditions of Contract GDC-25-007-HTP. 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 2/3/2025 
#0225-02: APPROVAL OF MARKET CASE ESTIMATE FOR THE MANHATTAN TUNNEL PROJECT 
  To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between New Jersey 
and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor (the "NEC"), the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) 
and the State of New York (“New York”) created the Gateway Development Commission ("GDC") through 
the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codiﬁed as the Gateway Development Commission Act 
(2019 N.Y . Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act").  
T h e  G D C  A c t  e m p o w e r s  t h e  C o m m i s s i o n  t o  " e n t e r  i n t o ,  e x e c u t e  a n d  d e l i v e r  c o n t r a c t s  a n d  
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out any 
power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose which the 
commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with the federal 
government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New York, with any local 
government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, commission or authority of any one 
or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private ﬁrm, entity or corporation, 
or with any one or more of them." 2019 N.Y . Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e).  
On February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
(“Amtrak”), and the Gateway Development Commission (“GDC”) (collectively, the “PDA Parties”) entered 
into an agreement (the “Project Development Agreement” or “PDA”) in order to establish their respective 
roles and responsibilities with respect to the funding, ﬁnancing, right -of-way acquisition, procurement, 
delivery, and operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”).  
As further described in the PDA, the HTP has been organized into certain work packages, which 
may be updated or changed from time -to-time. The Manhattan Tunnel Project (the “Manhattan Tunnel 
Project”) is a work package of the HTP , to be performed pursuant to a design-build contract and includes 
but is not limited to the following work located entirely in New York:  (a) grouting from within 12th Avenue 
and Temporary Access Shafts and/or street-levels, (b) designing and advancing SEM tunneling operations, 
including (i) SEM sequences, procedures, and incremental excavation advance lengths; (ii) sizing SEM 
tunnel geometries to accommodate future TBM operations; (iii) removal of encountered obstructions 
(e.g., timber piles and abandoned steel pile foundations); and (iv) installation of required initial ground 
support systems,  (c) beneath 12
th Avenue/Route 9A, inﬁlling completed SEM tunnels and Temporary 
Access Shaft access shafts with controlled low strength materials and soil backﬁll materials,   (d) 
constructing a ﬁnal cast-in-place reinforced concrete tunnel liner between the east side of 12th Avenue 
Shaft and the interface with HYCC-3.   
Subject to approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners,  GDC staﬀ have calculated the Market 
Case Estimate for the Manhattan Tunnel Project based on bid pricing in accordance with the terms of the 
PDA. The Market Case Estimate is $1,835,009,534 and includes all ﬁnal negotiated costs and contingencies 
related to the construction and delivery of the Manhattan Tunnel Project.   
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolutions were adopted, with Co-Chair Glen, 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice Chair Coscia, Commissioner Bauer, Commissioner Barbas, and Commissioner 
Rosen voting in favor: 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 2/3/2025 
 
2 
 
  
RESOLVED, that the GDC Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Market Case 
Estimate for the Manhattan Tunnel Project.  
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 2/3/2025 
 
3 
 
EXHIBIT A 
MARKET CASE ESTIMATE 
Manhattan Tunnel Project 
(“Manhattan Tunnel Project”) 
 
Market Case Estimate for Palisades Project  Estimate ($M) 
Construction, Mandatory Mitigations, 
Professional Services, ROW , Permits, and Third 
Party Agreements 
 
 
$1,575,804,913 
Contingency – Construction and Support Costs  
$259,204,621 
Total $1,835,009,534 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 2/3/2025 
   
1 
 
#0225-03: HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT – MANHATTAN TUNNEL PROJECT – AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE 
MODIFIED MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING TO PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT  
The Hudson Tunnel Project will improve resiliency, reliability, and redundancy for the busiest 
section of the Northeast Corridor (“NEC”) – the busiest passenger rail line in the United States. The Hudson 
Tunnel Project (“HTP”), for funding and financing pu rposes, includes the construction of a new Hudson 
River Tunnel between New York and New Jersey, and the rehabilitation of the existing 112-year-old North 
River Tunnel under the Hudson River.  
The Manhattan Tunnel Project (“Manhattan Tunnel”) is part of the Hudson Tunnel Project  and 
includes but is not limited to the following work located entirely in New York:  (a) grouting from within 
12th Avenue and Temporary Access Shafts and/or street- levels, (b) designing and advancing SEM 
tunneling operations, including (i) SEM sequences, procedures, and incremental excavation advance 
lengths; (ii) sizing SEM tunnel geometries to accommodate future TBM operations; (iii) removal of 
encountered obstructions (e.g., timber piles and abandoned steel pile foundations); an d (iv) installation 
of required initial ground support systems,  (c) beneath 12
th Avenue/Route 9A, infilling completed SEM 
tunnels and Temporary Access Shaft access shafts with controlled low strength materials and soil backfill 
materials,  (d) constructing a final cast-in-place reinforced concrete tunnel liner between the east side of 
12th Avenue Shaft and the interface with HYCC-3.   
The Gateway Development Commission (the “Commission”) is a public and government 
sponsored authority established by bi -state legislation (the “GDC Act”) in July 2019. The Commission is 
serving as the NEPA Project Sponsor and federal grant recipient for the Hudson Tunnel Project.  
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to “enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out any 
power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose which the 
commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with the federal 
government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New York, with any local 
government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, commission or authority of any one 
or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, 
or with any one or more of them.” 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e).  
The GDC Act further empowers the Commission to “utilize the existing labor force in the states 
and foster labor harmony in allowing for adoption of efficient labor work rules and practices during 
construction of the Project.” 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 7(q); N.J.S.A. § 32:36-8(q).  
A project labor agreement is a pre-hire collective bargaining agreement that establishes the terms 
and conditions of employment for a project.   
 The Project Development Agreement for the Hudson Tunnel Project (the “PDA”), a foundational 
agreement between the S tates of New Jersey and New York, Amtrak, and the Commission regarding 
delivery of the Hudson Tunnel Project, provides, at Article IV, Section 4.01(b),  that the Commission shall 
“engage with labor constituencies and lead the development and negotiation of applicable project labor 
agreement(s)” for the Hudson Tunnel Project.  
 The Commission has engaged , via its outside counsel, a consultant  to conduct a study to 
determine that it is in the Commission’s interest to negotiate and execute project labor agreements for 
Manhattan Tunnel based on considerations such as the impact of delay, the possibility of cost savings 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 2/3/2025 
   
2 
 
advantages, and the promotion of labor harmony are best met b y requiring a project labor agreement .  
The labor study recommends that the Commission negotiate and execut e project labor agreements for 
Manhattan Tunnel.  
Based on the conclusions in this study, t he Commission and the unions representing the trades 
who will perform work on Manhattan Tunnel (the “Parties”) engaged in negotiations regarding the terms 
and conditions of employment for Manhattan Tunnel.   
The terms the Parties have negotiated are memorialized in the Project Memorandum of 
Agreement between the Commission and the District Council of New York and Vicinity of the Union 
Brotherhood of Carpenters and Joiners of America, Local Union No. 3 International Brotherhood of 
Electrical Workers, AFL -CIO, Local Union No. 40 of Bridge, Structural Ornamental, and Reinforcin g Iron 
Workers, AFL-CIO, Building, Concrete, Excavating & Common Laborers Local No. 731, Operative Plasterers’ 
and Cement Masons’ International Association Local 780, and Teamsters, Local Union No. 282 which was 
approved by Resolution 1024-03 and attached thereto as “Exhibit A”, the Memorandum of Understanding 
between the Commission and the International Union of Operating Engineers Local 14-14B, AFL-CIO  and 
Local 15, 15A, 15C, 15D, 15G & 15H, AFL- CIO, which was approved by Resolution 1024 -03 and attached 
thereto hereto as “Exhibit B ,” the Memorandum of Understanding between the Commission and 
Laborers’ International Union of North America, Laborers’ Local Union No. 147  which was approved by 
Resolution 1024-03 and attached thereto  as “Exhibit C,” and  the Memorandum of Understanding 
between the Commission and District Council of New York City and Vicinity of the United Brotherhood of 
Carpenters and Joiners of America  which was approved by Resolution 1024 -03 and attached thereto as 
“Exhibit D,” (collectively, the “Labor Agreements”).   By Resolution 1024- 03, the Board authorized the 
Labor Agreements. 
The Parties have negotiated changes to the Memorandum of Understanding between the 
Commission and Laborers’ International Union of North America, Laborers’ Local Union No. 147  which 
was approved by Resolution 1024-03 and attached thereto as Exhibit C. 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolutions were adopted, with Co-Chair Glen, 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice Chair Coscia, Commissioner Bauer, Commissioner Barbas, and Commissioner 
Rosen voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer and designee are authorized to take any and all 
actions consistent with this resolution, and to make, execute and deliver in the name and on behalf of 
GDC the attached copy of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Commission and Laborers’ 
International Union of North America, Laborers’ Local Union No. 147 (“MOU”), and to take all other steps 
necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of the MOU, including enforcing the terms of the MOU 
as may be required, including but not limited to, initiating arbitration procedures as specified in the MOU.  
  
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 2/3/2025 
   
3 
 
 
EXHIBIT A 
MEMORANDUM OF UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN LABORERS’ INTERNATIONAL UNION OF NORTH 
AMERICA, LABORERS’ LOCAL UNION NO. 147 AND THE GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Board of Commissioner Approval  
MANHATTAN TUNNEL PROJECT 
This memorandum of understanding is entered into by and between the Laborers’ International Union of 
North America, Laborers’ Local Union No. 147 (“Local 147”), the Gateway Development Commission (“GDC”) 
and [insert name of employer of Local 147 represented employees] (“ ”) (collectively the “Parties”) on this 
_____ day of _____________, 202_. 
The Parties agree that, for work performed on the Manhattan Tunnel Project, as described in the attached 
“Project Description” (the “Project”), which is part of a larger construction plan known as the Hudson Tunnel 
Project, the terms and conditions of employment of Local 147 represented employees of [insert name of employer 
of Local 147 represented employees] shall be in accordance with Local 147’s collective bargaining agreements 
with the General Contractors Association of New York, Inc. (the “GCA Agreement”), together with the following 
terms: 
1. Local 147 agrees to participate in a Managed Care and Alternative Dispute Resolution program which is
to be designed pursuant to Article 17 of the Project Memorandum of Agreement (the “MOA”), but
subject to their right to opt out of the same upon written notice to [insert name of employer of Local 147
represented employees].
2. Local 147 agrees to Article 9 entitled “Work Stoppages and Lockouts” of the MOA with the exception
that such terms of the no strike language shall not apply upon the expiration of the GCA Agreement,
but such terms shall resume in force and effect upon execution of new applicable collective bargaining
agreement and no Local 147 represented employees shall be displaced as a result of any action they
take upon expiration of the GCA Agreement.
3. Local 147 agrees to Article 18 entitled “Project Logistics” of the MOA but by doing so Local 147 does
not relinquish any of its jurisdiction as to the work to be performed on the Project and the Parties all
agree that nothing contained in Article 18 shall allow for the assignment of Local 147 work to any other
labor union.
4. [insert name of employer of Local 147 represented employees] and the GDC agree that any disputes or
conflicts arising as between the terms of the GCA Agreement and the MOA shall be governed solely
by the terms and conditions of the GCA Agreement.
5. Unless specifically modified herein, all other terms and conditions of employment of the Local 147
members working on the Project shall be governed in their entirety by the GCA Agreement.

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Subject to Board of Commissioner Approval 
Acknowledged and agreed to by the following three (3) parties: 
International Union of North America, Laborers’ 
Local Union No. 147 
By: _____________________________ 
 Richard Fitzsimmons, Business Manager 
[insert name of employer of Local 147 Gateway Development Commission 
represented employees] 
By:  
[insert name and title] 
By:  
Thomas Prendergast, Chief Executive 
Officer 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 2/3/2025 
1 
 
#0225-04: HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT –  NEW JERSEY SURFACE ALIGNMENT (P3)  PROJECT – 
AUTHORIZATION OF STIPEND PROGRAM 
The Hudson Tunnel Project will improve resiliency, reliability, and redundancy for the busiest 
section of the Northeast Corridor (“NEC”) – the busiest passenger rail line in the United States. The Hudson 
Tunnel Project (“HTP”), for funding and financing purposes, includes the construction of a new Hudson 
River Tunnel between New York and New Jersey, and the rehabilitation of the existing 112-year-old North 
River Tunnel under the Hudson River.  
The Gateway Development Commission (the “Commission”) is a public and government 
sponsored authority established by bi -state legislation (the “GDC Act”) in July 2019. The Commission is 
serving as the NEPA Project Sponsor and federal grant recipient for the Hudson Tunnel Project.  
The Commission staff have determined that the development and institution of a stipend program 
in support of a two -step procurement process for the New Jersey Surface Alignment (P3) project 
procurement is in the best interest of, and provides the best value to, the Commission. The Commission 
currently intends to offer a stipend or payment for work product to each unsuccessful p roposer that 
submits a proposal that satisfies those conditions that will be specified in the procurement documents . 
The winning proposer will not receive a stipend or payment for work product. 
This stipend program will encourage bidding teams to invest appropriate level of resources and 
technical development, to encourage innovation, and to prepare a price-certain responsive bid to the New 
Jersey Surface Alignment (P3) project procurement. 
These stipends or p ayments for w ork product will be made in consideration for the p roposer’s 
transfer and assignment to the Commission of rights to the p roposer’s intellectual property, ideas, 
techniques, concepts, and approaches contained in its p roposal and/or other work product provided by 
the proposer during the RFP phase.  
In order to enact such a stipend program , the Commission wishes to adopt the Resolution set 
forth below.  
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolutions were adopted, with Co-Chair Glen, 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice Chair Coscia, Commissioner Bauer, Commissioner Barbas, and Commissioner 
Rosen voting in favor:  
RESOLVED, that the Chief Executive Officer of the Commission is hereby authorized to direct GDC 
staff to develop and institute a stipend program to support the New Jersey Surface Alignment (P3)  project 
procurement process, as detailed in the GDC Act and applicable Commission policies and procedures , at 
a cost not to exceed $6 million, which represents a not to exceed cost per bidder of $1.2 million, subject 
to the availability of funds; and be it further 
RESOLVED, that the CEO of the Commission is hereby  authorized to direct Commission staff to 
review eligible submissions and administer and cause to pay stipends to eligible proposers. 