  
G
ateway Development Commission 
Regular Meeting of the Board  
In-Person (New Jersey) 
April 14, 2025 
MI
NUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Amy Rosen 
Janine Bauer 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
Marie Therese Dominguez 
AMTRAK 
Anthony R. Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. C
all to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Glen at approximately 10:00 A.M.
Co-Chair Glen advised that public comments were being solicited in-person and virtually and
a
udio of the meeting was being live streamed from the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Glen noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and that a 
form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway Program website for those who wished 
to submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting Secretary Anderson conducted a roll call and confirmed that all Commissioners were 
present except Co-Chair Grewal-Virk who was absent, and that there was a quorum.  
Acting Secretary Anderson stated that adequate notice of today’s public meeting of the Board of 
Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s enabling 
legislation. 
II. Report on Minutes of the February 3, 2025, Meeting
Acting Secretary Anderson reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of February 3, 2025
were delivered in electronic form to the Governors of New York and New Jersey on February 3, 2025, and 
that the time for action by the Governors of New York and New Jersey expired at midnight on February 
19, 2025, at which time the actions recorded in the Minutes went into full force and effect.  
III. Gateway Program Update
The Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Prendergast, provided an update on the projects within 
the Hudson Tunnel Project under construction.  The Chief Financial Officer Patrick J. McCoy provided an 
update on the audited financial statements for fiscal year 2024.   
Following the presentation, Co-Chair Glen thanked Mr. Prendergast and Mr. McCoy for the update, and 
there were no questions or comments from the Board. 
IV. Public Comments

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
2
 
Co-Chair Glen announced that the Commission had solicited virtual comments from the public in 
advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for soliciting these comments was 
posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout today’s meeting.  
There was three (3) written comment(s) received by 5:00 PM on April 13, 2025: 
Commenter Topic 
Uma Reddi, AZH Consulting Corp. Software 
Samuel Turvey, ReThink NYC Penn Station 
Joshua Berman, Regional Plan Association Hudson Tunnel Project 
Co-Chair Glen noted that all written comments received by 5:00 p.m. on April 13, 2025 before 
the meeting were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and would be filed 
in the Commission’s records after the meeting.  
The following individuals provided in -person public comments during the April 14 , 2025 Board 
Meeting:  
Commenter Topic 
Joshua Berman, Regional Plan Association Hudson Tunnel Project 
Krowker Diveny, Around ARE World, LLC Anti-Theft Prevention 
Jerry Keenan, NJ Alliance for Action Hudson Tunnel Project 
Ferlanda Fox Nixon, Newark Regional Business 
Partnership 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Edward Funches, Inclusion Hudson Tunnel Project Workforce 
There were no written comments received on the day of the meeting. 
V. Executive Session 
Co-Chair Glen stated that the Board would enter Executive Session to discuss contract 
negotiations, personnel matters, and matters in which the release of information could impair a right to 
receive funds from the United States. Co-Chair Glen noted that the Board would reconvene the public 
meeting for the purpose of the Action Items. Vice Chair Coscia motioned to enter into Executive Session, 
Commissioner Bauer seconded the motion, and the motion was unanimously adopted at approximately 
10:30 AM.  
VI. Reconvening of Public Meeting 
The public meeting was reconvened by Co-Chair Glen at approximately 11:00 AM. Acting Secretary 
Anderson confirmed that there was a quorum of Commissioners present.  Acting Secretary Anderson 
also noted that Commissioner Grewal-Virk was absent. 
VII. Action Items 
#0425-01: Authorization of Fiscal Year 2024 Audited Financial Statements 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
3
 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Bauer made a motion, and Commissioner Rosen 
seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached 
Resolution. 
#0425-
02: Authorization of Award of Contract No. GDC-25-021-OP for Insurance Broker Services to 
Support the Hudson Tunnel Project 
The Bo
ard acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioner Bauer made 
a motion, and Commissioner Rosen seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call 
vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
VIII.
 Adjournment 
Co-Chair Glen noted that there was no further business to conduct and then motioned to adjourn 
the meeting . U pon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair Glen and seconded  by Commissioner 
Dominguez the meeting was adjourned at approximately 11:15 AM.  
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ M
aria C. Anderson  
Maria C. Anderson, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted - 4/14/2025 
# 0425-01: AUTHORIZATION OF FISCAL YEAR 2024 AUDITED FINANCIAL   STATEMENTS 
 The Gateway Development Commission (the “GDC ”) is a public authority and 
government-sponsored authority created through the enactment of parallel legislation by the 
States of New York and New Jersey codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 
N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et. seq.) (collectively, the “GDC Act”). 
The GDC Act and the GDC Bylaws hold that the GDC Board of Commissioners “shall 
arrange for an independent firm of certified public accountants to perform an audit of the 
financial statements of the Commission each year…” 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2( 10)(b); 
N.J.S.A. 32:36-11(b). 
Pursuant to Resolution #  1122-02, entitled “Authorization for GDC to enter into 
Operational Funding Agreements and Retain an Independent Auditor ,” approved by the GDC 
Board at the November 18, 2022 meeting, the GDC Board delegated authority to the GDC CEO to 
award and approve an agreement with an independent ﬁrm of certiﬁed public accountants, 
containing such terms as the GDC CEO and applicable s taﬀ deems necessary and advisable to 
eﬀectuate the foregoing transaction. 
In accordance with Resolution  # 1122-02, the Commission entered into an engagement 
letter with Deloitte & Touche LLP (“Deloitte”) to prepare audited ﬁnancial statements for the 2024 
ﬁscal year. As part of this engagement, and in accordance with the GDC Act and Bylaws, Deloitte 
serves as GDC’s independent auditor and is  required to report to the GDC Board of 
Commissioners. 
The GDC established an Audit Committee of the Board of Commissioners pursuant to 
Resolution #  0523-02 entitled “Establishing the Gateway Development Commission’s Audit 
Committee, Governance and Operations Committee, and Project Delivery Committee ,” and 
Section 6.01 of the GDC’s Bylaws that provides “[t]he Board may establish standing or ad hoc 
committees (each, a “ Committee”) with such duties and powers as conferred by Board 
Resolution.” 
On April 11, 202 5, the Audit Committee of the Board of Commissioners met with GDC’s 
independent auditor, Deloitte, to ensure appropriate reporting to the Board of Commissioners 
regarding its work auditing the Commission’s ﬁnancial statements for the 2024 ﬁscal year. 
Pursuant to the Bylaws and the Audit Committee Charter, the Audit Committee’s members 
have reviewed the Gateway Development Commission’s audited Financial Statements and 
Appended Note Disclosures for the ﬁscal year end ing December 31, 202 4 (“ 2024 Financial 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted - 4/14/2025 
Stat
ements”) and recommended to the Board that such Financial Statements be approved by 
GDC and be included in GDC’s 2024 Annual Report, as appropriate. 
The GDC Act requires that “[e]very ﬁnancial statement prepared pursuant to this section 
shall be approved by the board.”  2019 N.Y . Laws, Ch. 108, section 2(10)(c); N.J.S.A. 32:36-11(c). 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Vice-Chair 
Coscia, Co-Chair Glen, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Bauer, Commissioner Dominguez 
and Commissioner Rosen voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, in accordance with Section 8 of GDC’s Bylaws, the GDC Board of 
Commissioners hereby approves the 2024 Financial Statements and pursuant to such approval, 
the 2024 Financial Statements shall be published with the GDC’s Annual Report no later than 
April 30, 2025, in accordance with the GDC Act. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/14/2025 
#0425-02: AUTHORIZATION OF AWARD OF CONTRACT  NO. GDC-25-021-OP FOR INSURANCE 
BROKER SERVICES TO SUPPORT THE HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT   
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) and throughout 
the Northeast Corridor  (the " NEC"), New  Jersey and New York  created the Gateway 
Development Commission (" GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state 
codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 
32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any 
lawful purpose which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, 
the state of New York, with any  local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, 
department, commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state 
agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more 
of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
The State of New Jersey, State of New York and National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
(“Amtrak”) entered into a Project Development Agreement effective February 3, 2023 (“PDA”).  
Section 13.01(a) of the PDA requires GDC to retain an insurance advisor to advise the GDC Board 
regarding insurance coverage strategies and options for the Hudson Tunnel Project (“ HTP”) 
insurance program (“HTP Insurance Program”). 
On October 28, 2024, a federally compliant Request for Proposals (“RFP”) No. GDC-25-
021-OP was issued by GDC soliciting proposals  from  brokerage firms  interested in providing 
professional services to establish the HTP Insurance Program, the placement of new policies, 
renewal and administration of existing policies, provision of comprehensive advisory services 
and assista nce in the management of c laims to protect GDC from operational exposures  
(“Broker Services”) and to develop and recommend strategies and options for the HTP Insurance 
Program.  Proposals were received from four (4) responsive and responsible firms. The proposals 
were reviewed by an evaluation panel consisting of representatives of GDC, Amtrak, the Port 
Authority of New York and New Jersey (“ PANYNJ”), and MPA Delivery Partners (“ MPA”) 
(collectively, “Evaluation Panel”). The Evaluation Pa nel recommended  that  two (2 ) firms be 
invited to negotiations. Thereafter, GDC negotiated terms and conditions and prices  with each 
firm. Upon completion of negotiations, the Evaluation Panel determined that NFP Property & 
Casualty Services, Inc., an Aon Company (“NFP”), offered the best overall value to GDC. The 
initial term of Contract GDC-25-02 1-OP will be five (5) years ending in 203 0 (“Term”), and 
thereafter, GDC has the option to extend the term for up to four (4) two (2)-year extensions 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/14/2025 
which, if elected, will end the term in 2038 (“Renewal Term”). 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution w as adopted, with Vice-Chair 
Coscia, Co-Chair Glen, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Bauer, Commissioner Dominguez 
and Commissioner Rosen voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, Chief Administrative Officer or Deputy 
Chief of Administration-Procurement is authorized to enter into and execute Contract No. 
GDC-25-021-OP with NFP Property & Casualty Services, Inc., an Aon Company (“NFP”). 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to delegate, in writing, the 
authority to authorize, approve, create, amend, manage, and/or terminate any aspect of Contract 
No. GDC-25-021-OP and execute such documents as may be required in connection with the 
provision of Broker Services,  to the Chief Financial Officer, Deputy Chief of Administration-
Procurement, Senior Director Risk Management and Claims, and other officers or employees of 
GDC as may be required in connection with the administration of Contract GDC -25-021-OP, 
administration and renewal of existing insurance policies, review of insurance placement strategy 
and recommendation to purchase new insurance policies, administration of claims and 
alternative dispute resolution programs, and loss control and prevention, provided that the Chief 
Executive Officer provides notice in writing to the Co -Chairs and Vice Chair of the Board of such 
delegation, and any delegations of authority having occurred prior hereto are hereby ratified. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer , or designee, may authorize Broker 
Services and other work to be performed by NFP under Contract No. GDC-25-021-OP in the 
estimated amount of $30,000,000 during the Term, and further authorizing an additional amount 
equal to ten percent (10%) of the total estimated contract price for contingencies. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or designee may enter into and execute 
any other documents on behalf of GDC in connection with Contract No. GDC-25-021-OP in their 
discretion. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer  or designee is authorized to utilize NFP  
to develop and recommend the HTP Insurance Program, which shall be approved by the Board of 
Commissioners in consultation with the State of New Jersey, the State of New York, and Amtrak. 