 
G
ateway Development Commission 
Regular Meeting of the Board  
In-Person (New Jersey) 
March 23, 2026 
M
INUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Victor Herlinsky 
Justin Braz 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
Marie Therese Dominguez 
AMTRAK 
Anthony Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. C
all to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 10:30 A.M.
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk advised that public comments were being solicited virtually, and audio of
the meeting was being live streamed from the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and 
that a form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway Program website for those who 
wished to submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting Secretary Anderson  conducted a roll call and confirmed that all Commissioners were 
present, and that there was a quorum. Commissioner Dominguez left the meeting at 11:00 a.m. 
Acting Secretary Anderson stated that adequate notice of today’s public meeting of the Board of 
Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s enabling 
legislation. 
II. Report on Minutes of January 27, 2026, Meeting
Acting Secretary Anderson reported that copies of the Minutes of the January 27, 2026, meeting
were delivered in electronic form to the Governors of New York and New Jersey on January 28, 2026. The 
time for action by the Governors of New York and New Jersey expired at midnight on February 11, 2025, 
at which time any actions recorded in the Minutes went into full force and effect.  
III. Report on Public Comments
Acting Secretary Anderson announced that the Commission had solicited virtual comments from
the public in advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for soliciting these 
comments was posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout today’s meeting.  
There were three (3) written comments received by 5:00 PM on March 22, 2026: 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
2
 
Commenter Topic 
Carlo Casa, NY Building Congress Hudson Tunnel Project 
Samuel Turvey, ReThinkNYC/Empire Station 
Coalition/Penn Community Defense Fund  
Federal Funding 
Karla Corcuera, Karla Multiservices General Information 
Co-C
hair Grewal-Virk noted that all written comments received by 5:00 p.m. on March 22, 2026, 
before the meeting, were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and would 
be filed in the Commission’s records after the meeting.  
Th
e following individuals provided in-person public comments during the March 23, 2026, Board 
Meeting:  
Commenter Topic 
NJ Governor Mikie Sherrill Hudson Tunnel Project 
Manhattan Borough President , Brad Hoylman -
Sigal 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Councilman Brian Andrews, Township of Cranford, 
NJ 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Alex Pena, Partnership for NYC Hudson Tunnel Project 
Jerry Keenan, NJ Alliance for Action Hudson Tunnel Project 
Chad Purkey, Association for a Better New York Hudson Tunnel Project 
Robert Campos, Laborers Local 472 Hudson Tunnel Project 
Rob Lewandowski, LIUNA Hudson Tunnel Project 
Garth Naar, Avatar Tech Hudson Tunnel Project 
Ther
e was one (1) written comment received during the meeting on March 23, 2026: 
Commenter Topic 
Kate Slevin, Regional Plan Association Hudson Tunnel Project 
IV. G
ateway Program Update
The Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Prendergast,  and Chief Program Delivery
Officer James Starace provided an update on the Hudson Tunnel Project.  Following the presentation, Co-
Chair Grewal-Virk thanked Mr. Prendergast and Mr. Starace fo r the update. There were no questions 
from the Board.  
V. Action Items
#0326-01: Establishing the Gateway Development Commission’s Annual Board Meeting Schedule for 
Calendar Year 2026. 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have any 
comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Herlinsky made a motion, and Commissioner Braz 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

3 
 
seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached 
Resolution. 
#0326-02: Authorization of Award of Contracts GDC-26-031A-OP and GDC-26-031B-OP For Integrity 
Monitoring Services to Support the Hudson Tunnel Project. 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have any 
comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Herlinsky made a motion, and Vice Chair Coscia seconded 
the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#0326-03: Authorization of Award of Contract GDC-26-032-OP to Milbank, LLC For Legal Services to 
Support the Hudson Tunnel Project. 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk was recused from this action item. The Board acted on this referenced action item, 
enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner 
Herlinsky made a motion, and Commissioner Braz seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  
The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
VI
. Adjournment
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that there was no further business to conduct and then motioned to
adjourn the meeting. U pon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair Grewal -Virk and seconded  by 
Commissioner Braz the meeting was adjourned at approximately 11:30 A.M.  
Respectfully submitted, 
/
s/ Maria C. Anderson 
Maria C. Anderson, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted - 03.23.2026 
  
 
#0326-01: ESTABLISHING THE GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION’S ANNUAL BOARD 
MEETING SCHEDULE FOR CALENDAR YEAR 2026  
The Gateway Development Commission (the “Commission”) is a public authority and 
government sponsored authority created through the enactment of parallel legislation by the 
States of New York and New Jersey codiﬁed as the Gateway Development Commission Act 
(2019 N.Y . Sess. Laws Ch. 108 and 2019 N.J. Sess. Law Serv. Ch. 195) (collectively, the “GDC Act”).  
The Commission’s Open Meetings Policy, Bylaws, and the GDC Act provide procedures 
related to the timing, public notice, and location of meetings of the Commission’s Board of 
Commissioners (the “Board”) to allow for public participation and protocols that allow for 
meetings to be conducted in an eﬃcient and eﬀective manner.  
In accordance with provisions of the GDC Act, Section 4.01 of the Commission’s Bylaws 
provides that “[t]he Board shall meet regularly as it may determine. The time and place for all 
Meetings shall be determined by Co-Chairpersons; provided that, to the maximum extent 
practicable, Meetings shall be held on an alternating basis in New Jersey and New York.” 
 Section IV of the Commission’s Open Meetings Policy requires that the Board “will 
establish a schedule of meetings and hold special meetings in accordance with the 
Commission’s Bylaws,” and that a schedule of meetings of the Board “will be included in a 
public calendar of meetings posted on the Commission’s website, updated as appropriate.”  
In accordance with Section IV of the Commission’s Open Meetings Policy, the 
Commission desires to adopt the annual Board meeting schedule for calendar year 2026, as 
further detailed in Exhibit A.  
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Co-Chair 
Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair Glen, Vice Chair Cosci a, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner 
Herlinsky and Commissioner Braz voting in favor:  
RESOLVED, in accordance with Section IV(B)(1) of the Commission’s Open Meetings 
Policy, the Commission hereby adopts the annual Board meeting schedule for calendar year 
2026, as attached hereto as Exhibit A 
 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted - 03.23.2026 
  
 
EXHIBIT A SCHEDULE OF BOARD MEETINGS AND LOCATIONS 
New Jersey New York 
Unless otherwise indicated in public notices 
to be issued in accordance with the GDC Act, 
the regular meetings of the Gateway 
Development Commission’s Board of 
Commissioners will be held in-person at the 
NJ Transit Board Room at 2 Gateway Center, 
283-299 Market Street, 2nd Floor, Newark, 
New Jersey, and live streamed via 
www.gatewayprogram.org on the following 
dates: 
 
April 27, 2026 
June 30, 2026 
August 25, 2026 
October 27, 2026 
December 15, 2026 
Unless otherwise indicated in public notices 
to be issued in accordance with the GDC Act, 
the regular meetings of the Gateway 
Development Commission’s Board of 
Commissioners will be held in-person at the 
Port Authority Board Room at 4 World Trade 
Center, 23rd Floor, New York, New York, and 
live streamed via www.gatewayprogram.org 
on the following dates:  
 
 
May 26, 2026 
July 28, 2026 
September 29, 2026 
November 24, 2026 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted - 03.23.2026 
   
 
#0326-02: AUTHORIZATION OF AWARD OF CONTRACTS GDC-26-031A-OP and GDC-26-031B-OP 
FOR INTEGRITY MONITORING SERVICES TO SUPPORT THE HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT   
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) and throughout 
the Northeast Corridor  (the "NEC"), New  Jersey and New York  created the Gateway 
Development Commission (" GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state 
codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 
32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any 
lawful purpose which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, 
the state of New York, with any  local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, 
department, commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state 
agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more 
of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
In July 2025, a federally-compliant Request for Proposals (“RFP”) No. GDC-25-031-OP was 
issued by GDC soliciting proposals  from entities interested in providing integrity monitoring 
services (“Services”) to support the H udson Tunnel Project (“HTP”). Proposals were received 
from sixteen (16) responsive firms which were reviewed by an evaluation panel consisting of 
representatives from the GDC Office of the Inspector General, Legal, Finance and Procurement 
Departments collectively, (“Evaluation Panel”). The Evaluation Panel recommended seven (7) 
firms to be invite d for oral presentations . Thereafter, GDC undertook the negotiation of terms 
and conditions, insurance, and price with four (4) firms, and the Evaluation Panel recommended 
two (2) firms for award. Both recommended firms were found responsive and responsible.  The 
initial terms  of Contracts GDC-26-033A-OP, and GDC-26-033B-OP are five (5) years ending in 
2031 (“Base Term”), and thereafter, GDC has the option to extend their term for up to three (3) 
additional (1) year periods which, if elected, will end the term in 2034 (“Option Years”). 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was  adopted, with Co-Chair 
Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair Glen, Vice Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Herlinsky 
and Commissioner Braz voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice 
President or Deputy Chief Administration-Procurement is authorized to enter into and execute 
Contract GDC-26-031A-OP with Cohn Reznick Advisory LLC and Guidepost Solutions, LLC, a joint 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted - 03.23.2026 
venture, in an amount not to exceed $17,600,000 and Contract GDC -26-031B-OP with Joseph 
A. Deluca Advisory in an amount not to exceed $22,100,000, (collectively “Firms”).
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or designee is authorized to increase 
Contracts GDC-26-031A-OP, and GDC-26-031B-OP by an additional amount equal to five percent 
(5%) of each respective total contract price for contingencies, in each case subject to the 
availability of funds, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms and conditions 
of GDC-26-031A-OP, and GDC-26-031B-OP. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, is authorized to delegate, in writing, the 
authority to authorize, approve, create, amend, manage, and/or terminate any aspect of 
Contracts GDC-26-031A-OP and GDC-26-031B-OP, and execute such documents as may be 
required to the Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President or Deputy Chief Administration -
Procurement, or other officers or employees of GDC provided that the Chief Executive Officer  
provides notice in writing to the Co-Chairs and Vice Chair of the Board of such delegation and any 
delegations of authority having occurred prior hereto are hereby ratified. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer , or their designee s, including the Chief 
Financial Officer, Executive Vice President , or Inspector General may assign the work to be 
performed by the Firms not to exceed the respective amounts approved by the Board. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 03.23.2026 
#0326-03: AUTHORIZATION OF AWARD OF CONTRACT GDC-2 6-032-OP TO M ILBANK, LLC TO  
THE HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT   
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) and throughout 
the Northeast Corridor  (the  " NEC"), New  Jersey and New York  created the Gateway 
Development Commission (" GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state 
codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act  (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 
32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and ot her documents and  instruments  as may  be  necessary or  a ppropriate to  
carry out any  power of  the  Commission  under  t his act  and to  otherwise  a ccomplish a ny 
lawful purpose which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, 
the state of New York, with any  local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, 
department, commission or authority of any  one  or  more  of the  foregoing, any bi -state 
agency, Amtrak, any  individual or  private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more 
of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36- 8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, a uthority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in ea ch case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
Under GDC Board Resolution 0922- 02 approved by the GDC Board on  September 13, 
2022, the GDC Chief Executive Officer  was authorized to award contract s not in excess of 
$300,000.00 upon notice to the Co-Chairs and Vice Chair of the Board where such contracts are 
in excess of $100,000.00. 
An emergency procurement was initiated in accordance with GDC’s Procurement 
Guidelines for legal services, and contract GDC-26-032-OP was entered into with Milbank LLC by 
the GDC Chief Executive Officer in accordance with the delegation of authority granted by GDC 
Board Resolution 0922-02.    
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was  adopted, with Co-Chair 
Glen, Vice Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Herlinsky and Commissioner Braz 
voting in favor: 
RE
SOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer , Executive Vice President  or Deputy 
Chief of Administration - Procurement are authorized to enter into and execute contract GDC-
26-032-OP with Milbank LLC and any actions taken prior hereto are hereby ratified.
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to delegate, in writing, the 
authority to authorize, approve, create, amend, manage, and/or terminate any aspect of  contract 
GDC-26-032-OP and execute such documents as may be required to the General Counsel, or other 
officers or employees of GDC provided that the Chief Executive Officer provides notice in writing 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 03.23.2026 
to the Co-Chairs and Vice Chair of the Board of such delegation and any delegations of authority 
having occurred prior hereto are hereby ratified. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer , or their designee, and the General 
Counsel, may assign the work to be performed by Milbank, LLC under contract GDC-26-032-OP 
not to exceed the amount for the use of outside counsel included in the annual GDC operating 
budget approved by the Board, and any assignments having occurred prior hereto are hereby 
ratified. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or designee may enter into and execute 
any agreements and other documents on behalf of GDC in connection with contract GDC-26-032-
OP in their discretion. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to settle all claims by or 
against GDC arising out of the contract GDC -26-032-OP where the total payment or amount of 
the claim is not in excess of $500,000. Claims against GDC shall include claims against individuals 
for which GDC would be responsible under Article VII of GDC’s Bylaws (“Defense and 
Indemnification of Individuals”); provided, however, that in the case of claims against individuals 
for which GDC would be responsible under said Article VII which are covered by insurance 
purchased by or on behalf of such individuals, GDC shall pay such claims only to the extent that 
they are in excess of the amount for which insurance carriers are responsible. 