Ga
teway Development Commission 
Regular Meeting of the Board  
In-Person (New Jersey) 
December 15, 2025 
MI
NUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Victor Herlinsky 
Amy Rosen 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
Marie Therese Dominguez 
AMTRAK 
Anthony Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. Ca
ll to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 10:00 A.M.
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk advised that public comments were being solicited virtually, and audio of
the meeting was being live streamed from the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and 
that a form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway Program  website for those who 
wished to submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting S ecretary Anderson conducted a roll call and confirmed that all  Commissioners 
were present, and that there was a quorum.  
Acting Secretary Anderson stated that adequate notice of today’s public meeting of the Board of 
Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s enabling 
legislation. 
I
I. Report on Minutes of September 30, 2025, Meeting
Acting Secretary Anderson reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of September 30,
2025 were delivered in electronic form to the Governors of New York and New Jersey on September 30 , 
2025, and were approved by the Governors of New York and New Jersey on September 30, 2025, at which 
time the actions recorded in the Minutes went into full force and effect.  
III. Report on Public Comments
Acting Secretary Anderson announced that the Commission had solicited virtual comments from
the public in advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for soliciting these 
comments was posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout today’s meeting.  
There was one (1) written comment received by 5:00 PM on December 14, 2025: 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
2 
Commenter Topic 
Rudy Niederer, Cascadia High-Speed Rail Penn Station and Grand Central Station 
C
o-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that all written comments received by 5:00 p.m. on December 14, 
2025, before the meeting, were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and 
would be filed in the Commission’s records after the meeting.  
T
he following individuals provided in -person public comments during the December  15, 2025, 
Board Meeting:  
Commenter Topic 
Robert Lewandoski, LIUNA Hudson Tunnel Project 
Mateo Colon, New York Building Congress Hudson Tunnel Project 
Samuel Turvey, Rethink NYC Hudson Tunnel Project 
Kate Slevin, Regional Plan Association Hudson Tunnel Project 
Joshua Berman, Build Gateway Now Coalition Hudson Tunnel Project 
Jerry Keenan, NJ Alliance for Action Hudson Tunnel Project 
Th
ere was one (1) written comment received during the meeting on December 15, 2025: 
Commenter Topic 
Chad Purkey, Association for a Better New York Hudson Tunnel Project 
I
V. Gateway Program Update
The Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Prendergast , and Chief Program Delivery
Officer James Starace provided an update on the Hudson Tunnel Project.  Chief Financial Officer Patrick J. 
McCoy presented the GDC 2026 Fiscal Year Operating Budget.  Chief Executive Officer Thomas 
Prendergast presented the action item s. Following the presentation, Co -Chair Grewal-Virk thanked Mr. 
Prendergast, Mr. Starace and Mr. McCoy for the update, and there were no questions or comments from 
the Board.  
V. Action Items
#1225-01: Authorization to Execute Amendment to the Supporting or Executing Partner Agreement 
with New Jersey Transit Corporation 
Th
e Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Herlinsky made a motion, and Commissioner 
Rosen seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the 
attached Resolution. 
#
1225-02: Authorization of Delegation of Authority to Increase Contract GDC23-002 
Th
e Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Herlinsky made a motion, and Commissioner 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

3
 
 
Rosen seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the 
attached Resolution. 
#1225-03: Adoption of Gateway Development Commission’s Final Annual Operating Budget For Fiscal 
Year 2026 
Th
e Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Herlinsky made a motion, and Vice Chair Coscia 
seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached 
Resolution. 
VI
. Executive Session
C
o-Chair Grewal-Virk stated that the Board would enter Executive Session to discuss contract
negotiations, personnel matters, and matters in which the release of information could impair a right to 
receive funds from the United States. Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Board would reconvene the 
public meeting for the purpose of adjourning the meeting. Co-Chair Grewal-Virk motioned to enter into 
Executive Session, Commissioner Rosen seconded the motion, and the motion was unanimously 
adopted at approximately 10:45 AM.  
V
II. Reconvening of Public Meeting
T
he public meeting was reconvened by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 11:30 AM. Acting
Secretary Anderson confirmed that there was a quorum of Commissioners present.  
V
III. Adjournment
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that there was no further business to conduct and then motioned to
adjourn the meeting. U pon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair Grewal -Virk and seconded  by 
Commissioner Herlinsky the meeting was adjourned at approximately 11:35 A.M.  
Respectfully submitted, 
/
s/ Maria C. Anderson 
Maria C. Anderson, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 12/15/2025 
 
1 
 
#1225-01: AUTHORIZATION TO EXECUTE AMENDMENT TO THE SUPPORTING OR EXECUTING 
PARTNER AGREEMENT WITH NEW JERSEY TRANSIT CORPORATION 
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
New Jersey and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor (the “ NEC”), New Jersey and 
New York created the Gateway Development Commission (“ GDC”) through the enactment of 
parallel legislation by each state codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 
N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the “GDC Act”). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to “enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry 
out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose 
which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with 
the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New 
York, with any local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, 
commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi -state agency, Amtrak, any 
individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more of them.” 2019 N.Y. 
Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e).  
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “ [t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.”  
Accordingly, on February 3,  2023, the State of New Jersey, the State of New York, the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation (“ Amtrak”), and the GDC  entered into a Project 
Development Agreement ( “PDA”) in order to establish their respective roles and responsibilities 
with respect to the funding, financing, right- of-way acquisition, procurement, delivery, and 
operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”). 
As further described in the PDA, the delivery of individual work packages of the HTP may 
be implemented pursuant to agreements between the GDC and certain “Supporting or Executing 
Partners” as defined in Section 3.02(a) of the PDA (hereinafter “SEP”).  
Pursuant to the terms of the PDA and Board Resolution 1023-02 approved on October 16, 
2023, GDC and New Jersey Transit Corporation  (“NJ TRANSIT”) entered into an SEP Agreement 
dated October 31, 2023 in order to establish their roles and responsibilities with respect to 
certain services that NJ TRANSIT would provide in support of the delivery of  the New Jersey  
surface alignment for the HTP (“Package 3”) (the “NJ TRANSIT SEP Agreement”). 
GDC and NJ TRANSIT desire to amend the NJ TRANSIT SEP Agreement to provide for the 
acquisition of property beyond Package 3 to support the Hudson Tunnel Project and a protocol 
for reimbursement of NJ TRANSIT property acquisition costs and related expenses, an execution 
version of which is attached hereto as Exhibit A. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 12/15/2025 
 
2 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolutions were adopted, with Co-Chair 
Glen, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice-Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Dominguez, 
Commissioner Herlinsky and Commissioner Rosen voting in favor: 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or Executive Vice President is authorized 
to take any and all actions consistent with this R esolution, and to make, execute, and deliver in 
the name and on behalf of GDC Amendment 1 to the NJ TRANSIT SEP Agreement, and to take all 
other steps necessary to comply with the terms and conditions , provide day-to-day direction of 
the contemplated services, and take any other action necessary to effectuate the NJ TRANSIT SEP 
Agreement as amended. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or Executive Vice President or designee 
may enter and execute any documents on behalf of GDC in connection with administration or 
performance of the NJ TRANSIT  SEP Agreement in their discretion, and any such documents 
having been executed prior hereto are hereby ratified. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or Executive Vice President are 
authorized to delegate, in writing, the authority to perform the obligations of the NJ TRANSIT SEP 
Agreement  as may be required to other officers or employees of GDC provided that the Chief 
Executive Officer or Executive Vice President provides notice in writing to the Co-Chairs and Vice 
Chair of the Board of such delegation, and any delegations o f authority having occurred prior 
hereto are hereby ratified. 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 12/15/2025 
 
3 
 
EXHIBIT A 
AMENDMENT 1 to NJ TRANSIT SEP AGREEMENT 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Execution Version 12/12/2025    
 
AMENDMENT NO. 1 
to 
SUPPORTING OR EXECUTING PARTNER AGREEMENT 
For 
NEW JERSEY SURFACE ALIGNMENT (PACKAGE 3) 
FOR THE HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT 
By and Between 
GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION 
And 
NEW JERSEY TRANSIT CORPORATION 
 
THIS AMENDMENT No. 1 to the SUPPORTING OR EXECUTING PARTNER 
AGREEMENT (“Amendment 1”) is made effective as of __________ ___, 2025 (the “Effective 
Date”), by and between, New Jersey Transit Corporation, a public instrumentality of the State of 
New Jersey ("NJ TRANSIT"), and the Gateway Development Commission, a public authority and 
a government sponsored authority by the State of New Jersey and the State of New York ("GDC").  
NJ TRANSIT and GDC are collectively referred to herein as the "Parties" or in the singular each 
as “Party”, as the context requires. 
WITNESSETH: 
WHEREAS, the Parties entered into  the Supporting or Executing Partner Agreement 
(“Agreement”) on October 31, 2023, to address the rights and responsibilities with respect to 
Package 3 of the Hudson Tunnel Project, as those terms are defined in that Agreement; and 
 WHEREAS, the Agreement requires NJ TRANSIT to acquire all surface and subsurface 
property required for the operations, construction, and maintenance of the property located in New 
Jersey required for the Project (“NJ HTP Parcels”); and 
 WHEREAS, NJ TRANSIT and Amtrak entered into a Funding Agreement for the 
Purchase of Real Property Interests for the Hudson Tunnel Project (“Amtrak Funding Agreement”) 
on September 1, 2022, wherein Amtrak committed to compensate NJ TRANSIT for the NJ HTP 
Parcels; and 
 WHEREAS, NJ TRANSIT received a total of $ 22,800,000 from Amtrak , no further 
payments are due NJ TRANSIT from Amtrak, and NJ TRANSIT and Amtrak intend to terminate 
the Amtrak Funding Agreement after execution of this First Amendment by the Parties; and 
WHEREAS, the Parties now wish to amend the Agreement with this Amendment 1 to 
address the compensation for the NJ HTP Parcels;  
WHEREAS, by resolution dated [insert date] , the GDC Board of Commissioners  (the 
“GDC Board”) delegated authority to the Chief Executive Officer or Executive Vice President to 
amend the Agreement; and 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Execution Version 12/12/2025 
2 
WHEREAS, GDC shall submit a revised Real Estate Acquisition Management Plan to the 
Federal Transit Administration  as lead agency with the Federal Railroad Administration, that 
includes a termination of the Funding Agreement and this Amendment 1. 
NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and promises set forth in 
this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which 
are hereby acknowledged to be adequate, the Parties hereto do hereby agree as follows: 
1. Recital L in the Agreement is amended as follows in bold: 
 
By resolution dated October 16, 2023, the GDC Board of Commissioners (the “GDC 
Board”) has authorized GDC to enter into this Agreement with NJ TRANSIT to provide 
certain construction management, project management support, field support, and other 
technical assistance, property acquisition  for the operations, construction and 
maintenance of the Work and HTP,  and advisory services as more fully described 
herein (the “NJ TRANSIT Services”) associated with the delivery of the Work and the 
HTP; 
2. SECTION 7.02(g). Section 7.02 of the Agreement is amended to add the following: 
(g) For the avoidance of doubt, GDC will  provide funding to and reimburse  NJ 
TRANSIT for the NJ TRANSIT Services associated with NJ TRANSIT’s acquisition 
of the NJ HTP Parcels and shall include, but are not limited to, any compensation paid 
by NJ TRANSIT to property owners, engineering services, environmental remediation 
and/or consulting services, attorney fees, court costs, litigation costs , including all 
reasonable costs for expert reports, expert witnesses,  settlement costs, property 
appraisals, filing fees, relocation costs required by the Uniform Relocation Assistance 
and Real Property Acquisition Polices Act of 1970, N.J.S.A. 20:4-1 et seq. and N.J.S.A. 
27:7-72 et seq, and just compensation as determined by a court of law , subject to: (i) 
Section 5.04 which requires the availability of funds, (ii) NJ TRANSIT’s compliance 
with Appendix A, Section 1.01(a)(ii) which requires NJ TRANSIT to comply with all 
applicable federal, state, and local laws, and all applicable USDOT rules and guidance 
documents in the acquisition, including the Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real 
Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970 (Public Law 91-646), and 49 C.F.R. Part 24, 
and (iii) NJ TRANSIT ’s compliance with Section 7.03(c) which requires reasonable 
supporting records and data necessary for GDC to secure reimbursement from federal 
and other funding sources of any payments to be made to NJ TRANSIT for providing 
the NJ TRANSIT Services. 
3. Section 7.03(d) is added as follows: 
For the acquisition costs of the NJ HTP Parcels, NJ TRANSIT will invoice GDC for  
the anticipated acquisition costs of NJ HTP Parcels,  as needed, in a format approved 
by GDC, and GDC shall, within thirty  (30) days of receipt, pay such invoices. NJ 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Execution Version 12/12/2025 
3 
TRANSIT shall deposit these funds into a segregated account (“Account”) to be 
utilized by NJ TRANSIT for payment of NJ HTP Parcel acquisition costs. 
NJ TRANSIT shall advise GDC in writing on a monthly basis of payments made from 
the Account, including an itemization and basis of payments and a justification of all 
costs for the NJ HTP Parcels in relation to fair market value, and shall provide GDC  
with reasonable documentation of costs incurred in connection with the NJ HTP Parcel 
costs so that GDC  may properly account for those costs in connection with its 
obligations to federal agencies and otherwise. 
After NJ TRANSIT’s acquisition and payment of all costs of NJ HTP Parcels, any 
funds remaining in the Account shall be returned by NJ TRANSIT to GDC.   
4. Except as amended herein in this Amendment 1, all other terms and conditions of the 
Agreement shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect. 
 
 
 
 
 
[REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Execution Version 12/12/2025 
4 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have hereby executed, sealed, and delivered 
this Agreement by and through their duly authorized representatives as of  the date first set forth 
above. 
 
NJ TRANSIT CORPORATION 
 
        
Name: 
Title: 
 
 
 
GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION 
 
        
Name: 
Title: 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 12/15/2025 
 
1 
 
#1225-02: AUTHORIZATION OF DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY TO INCREASE CONTRACT GDC23-
002 
 
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
New Jersey and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor (the " NEC"), the State of New 
Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) created the Gateway Development 
Commission ("GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the 
Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36 -1, et seq.) 
(collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts 
and agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate 
to carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any 
lawful purpose which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, 
without limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local 
government thereof, the state of New York, with any local government thereof, with any 
agency, instrumentality, department, commission or authority of any one or more of the 
foregoing, any bi -state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, 
or with any one or more of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7 )(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36 -
8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
 
Accordingly, on February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation (“Amtrak”), and GDC entered into a Project Development  Agreement (“PDA”) in 
order to establish their respective roles and responsibilities with respect to the funding, financing, 
right-of-way acquisition, procurement, delivery, and operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project 
(“HTP”). 
 
As further described in the PDA, the HTP has been organized into certain work packages, 
which may be updated or changed from time to time .  The Tonnelle Avenue bridge and utility 
relocation project ( the “Tonnelle Ave. Project”) is a critical early work package of the HTP and 
involves the relocation of utilities and the construction of a new roadway bridge for Tonnelle 
Avenue in North Bergen, New Jersey. The new roadway bridge is  located immediately above a 
new railroad right-of-way, which allows for a connection to the new tunnel portal at the western 
slope of the New Jersey Palisades and provides access between the staging sites on either side of 
Tonnelle Avenue.   The Tonnelle Ave. Project is anticipated to be substantially completed on 
October 31, 2025.      
By Resolution 0923-01, the Board authorized the GDC Chief Executive Officer to enter into 
Contract GDC23-002 to Conti Civil, LLC (“Conti”) was in an amount not to exceed $28,584,120.00 
(together, with the Contract Documents issued as part of the IFB process, referred to as “Contract 
GDC23-002”) plus five percent for contingencies.   

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 12/15/2025 
 
2 
 
 New Jersey Surface Alignment (“ Package 3”) includes critical early work (the “ P3 Early 
Work”) that must be performed while procurement of Package 3 is pending because 
environmental restrictions will commence in March and affect P3 Early Work activities.  An 
increase of Contract GDC23-002 is the most expeditious way to allow early work for Package 3 to 
be completed and will protect the Package 3 schedule.  P3 Early Work will be removed from the 
scope of the Package 3 contract when awarded.    
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolutions were adopted, with Co -Chair 
Glen, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice-Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Dominguez, 
Commissioner Herlinsky and Commissioner Rosen voting in favor: 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President or Deputy Chief 
Administration – Procurement are delegated authority to negotiate, finalize and execute with 
Conti Civil, LLC an amendment to, and to increase, GDC Contract GDC23-002 in an amount not to 
exceed $2,750,000, plus five percent for contingencies for the performance of the P3 Early Work.  
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President or Deputy Chief 
Administration – Procurement are authorized to take any and all actions consistent with this 
Resolution, and to make, execute, and deliver in the name and on behalf of GDC  an amendment 
to Contract GDC23-002 for Conti to perform the P3 Early Work , and to take all other steps 
necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of Contract GDC23-002, as amended. 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President or Deputy Chief 
Administration – Procurement are authorized to delegate, in writing, the authority to authorize, 
approve, create, amend, manage, and/or terminate Contract GDC23 -002  as may be required to 
other officers or employees of GDC provided that the Chief Executive Officer or Executive Vice 
President provides notice in writing to the Co -Chairs and Vice Chair of the Board of such 
delegation, and any delegations of authority having occurred prior hereto are hereby ratified. 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, Executive Vice President or Deputy Chief 
Administration – Procurement or their designee may enter and execute any documents on behalf 
of GDC in connection with administration or performance of Contract GDC23 -002 in their 
discretion, and any such documents having been executed prior hereto are hereby ratified. 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 12/15/2025 
#1225-03: ADOPTION OF GATEWAY DEVELOPMENT COMMISSION’S FINAL ANNUAL OPERATING 
BUDGET FOR FISCAL YEAR 2026 
The Gateway Development Commission (the “ Commission” or “ GDC”) is a public 
authority and government sponsored authority created through the enactment of parallel 
legislation by the States of New York and New Jersey codified as the Gateway Development 
Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Sess. Laws Ch. 108 and 2019 N.J. Sess. Law Serv. Ch. 195) (collectively, 
the “GDC Act”). 
 The GDC Act  provides that the Commission “shall prepare a detailed annual operating 
budget”, and further provides that a “preliminary annual operating budget shall be made publicly 
available on the Commission's website each fiscal year and a final annual operating budget shall 
be made publicly available on the Commission's website each fiscal year.”  
The GDC Act notes that “[t]he time with which such preliminary annual operating budget 
and final annual operating budget shall be made public during each fiscal year shall be 
determined by the Commission.”  
Commission staff prepared a proposed operating budget for Fiscal Year 202 6 that was 
published on the Commission’s website on December 5, 2025 in accordance with the GDC Act. 
 
The operating budget forecasts spending of $ 77,567,714. The operating budget will 
provide necessary support for salaries of current staﬀ, hiring of additional staﬀ, professional 
services necessary to support and supplement the work of Commission staﬀ, and other 
administrative expenses necessary to support the Commission’s operations, as further detailed 
in Exhibit A.  
The Commission desires to adopt the proposed operating budget as the final annual 
operating budget for Fiscal Year 2026. 
 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolutions were adopted, with Co-Chair 
Glen, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Vice-Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Dominguez, 
Commissioner Herlinsky and Commissioner Rosen voting in favor: 
 
RESOLVED, pursuant to the Act, the Commission adopts the Operating Budget attached 
hereto as Exhibit A in the amount of $77,567,714 as the final annual Operating Budget for Fiscal 
Year 2026; and 
 
RESOLVED that the GDC CEO is authorized to expend, in the normal course of business, 
the funds necessary to meet GDC’s obligations, essentially in accordance with this ﬁnal annual 
Operating Budget for Fiscal Year 2026 Resolution and attachment; and 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC CEO is authorized to take any and all actions consistent with this 
Resolution and to make, execute, and deliver in the name of and on behalf of GDC all instruments, 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 12/15/2025 
 
2 
 
agreements, certiﬁcations, and all other documents as may be required or contemplated by the 
foregoing with respect to the GDC Operating and Funding Agreements with the State of New York, 
the State of New Jersey, and Amtrak, containing such terms as the GDC CEO and applicable staﬀ 
deems necessary and advisable in order to eﬀectuate the foregoing transactions , as well as any 
additional agreements  or other actions t h a t  m a y  b e  n e c e s s a r y  r e l a t e d  t o  t h e  d i s p o s i ti o n  o f  
existing and unused Fiscal Year 202 5 funding, and any action s taken prior hereto are hereby 
ratiﬁed; and 
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC CEO and applicable staﬀ will report back to the Board once GDC 
and the State of New Y ork, the State of New Jersey , and Amtrak have executed and/or updated 
the respective GDC Operation and Funding Agreements.  
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 12/15/2025 
 
3 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
EXHIBIT A 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2026 Proposed Administrative Budget
 Administrative Expenses 
 Staff 21,079,752$        
 Professional Support Services 23,957,963
 Administration and Contingency 2,340,000
 Office Equipment, Services and Supplies 190,000
 Sub -Total Administrative Expenses 47,567,714$        
 Interest on Short Term Facility $30,000,000
 Total Budgeted Expenses $77,567,714