  
G
ateway Development Commission 
Regular Meeting of the Board  
In-Person (New Jersey) 
April 27, 2026 
M
INUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Victor Herlinsky 
Justin Braz 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
Marie Therese Dominguez 
AMTRAK 
Anthony Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. C
all to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 10:30 A.M.
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk advised that public comments were being solicited virtually, and audio of
the meeting was being live streamed from the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and 
that a form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway Program website for those who 
wished to submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting Secretary Anderson  conducted a roll call and confirmed that all Commissioners were 
present, and that there was a quorum.  
Acting Secretary Anderson stated that adequate notice of today’s public meeting of the Board of 
Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s enabling 
legislation. 
II. Report on Minutes of March 23, 2026, Meeting
Acting Secretary Anderson reported that copies of the Minutes of the March 23, 2026, meeting
were delivered in electronic form to the Governors of New York and New Jersey on March 23, 2026. The 
time for action by the Governors of New York and New Jersey expired at midnight on  April 7, 2026 at 
which time any actions recorded in the Minutes went into full force and effect.  
III. Report on Public Comments
Acting Secretary Anderson announced that the Commission had solicited virtual comments from
the public in advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for soliciting these 
comments was posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout today’s meeting.  
There were two (2) written comments received by 5:00 PM on April 26, 2026: 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
2
 
Commenter Topic 
Jerry Keenan, NJ Alliance for Action Hudson Tunnel Project 
Christopher Boylan, General Contractors 
Association of NY  
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Co-Ch
air Grewal-Virk noted that all written comments received by 5:00 p.m. on April 26, 2026, 
before the meeting, were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and would 
be filed in the Commission’s records after the meeting.  
The
 following individuals provided in -person public comments during the  April 27, 2026, Board 
Meeting:  
Commenter Topic 
Mike Travastino, NJ LECET Hudson Tunnel Project 
Joshua Berman, Regional Plan Association Hudson Tunnel Project 
Samuel Turvey, ReThink NYC Hudson Tunnel Project Capacity 
Shashank Shamshabad, New York Building 
Congress 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
There no w
ritten comments received during the meeting on April 27, 2026. 
IV. Gateway Program Update
The Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Prendergast, Chief Program Delivery Officer
James Starace , and Chief Financial Officer Patrick McCoy  provided an update on the Hudson Tunnel 
Project.  Following the presentation, Co -Chair Grewal-Virk thanked them for the update. There were no 
questions from the Board.  
V. Executive Session
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk stated that the Board would enter Executive Session to discuss contract
negotiations, personnel matters, and matters in which the release of information could impair a right to 
receive funds from the United States. Co-Chair Glen noted that the Board would reconvene the public 
meeting for the purpose of voting on the action items and adjourning the meeting. Co-Chair Grewal-Virk 
motioned to enter into Executive Session, Commissioner Braz seconded the motion, and the motion was 
unanimously adopted at approximately 11:00 AM.  
VI. Reconvening of Public Meeting
The public meeting was reconvened by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 11:35 AM. Acting
Secretary Anderson confirmed that there was a quorum of Commissioners present. 
VII. Action Items
#0426-01: Authorization of Award of Contract GDC-26-008-HTP for the P1C: The Hudson River Tunnel 
Section. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

3 
  
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have any 
comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Herlinsky made a motion, and Commissioner Braz 
seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached 
Resolution. 
#0426-02: Approval of Market Case Estimate for the P1C: The Hudson River Tunnel Section. 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have any 
comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Braz made a motion, and Commissioner Herlinsky 
seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached 
Resolution. 
#0426-03: Authorization of Increase to Contract GDC-25-021-OP For Insurance Broker Services and 
Approval of Insurance Program to Support the Hudson Tunnel Project. 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have any 
comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Braz made a motion, and Vice Chair Coscia seconded the 
motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#0426-04: Authorization of Award of Contract for Third Party Administration Services to Support the 
Hudson Tunnel Project’s Insurance Program. 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have any 
comments on this Resolution.  Vice Chair Coscia made a motion, and Commissioner Braz seconded the 
motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
#0426-05: Authorization of Fiscal Year 2025 Audited Financial Statements. 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not have any 
comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Braz made a motion, and Commissioner Dominguez 
seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached 
Resolution. 
V
III. Adjournment
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that there was no further business to conduct and then motioned to
adjourn the meeting. U pon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair Grewal -Virk and seconded  by 
Commissioner Herlinsky the meeting was adjourned at approximately 12:00 PM.  
Respectfully submitted, 
/
s/ Maria C. Anderson 
Maria C. Anderson, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/27/2026 
 
 
1 
 
#0426-01: AUTHORIZATION OF AWARD OF CONTRACT GDC-26-008-HTP FOR THE P1C: HUDSON 
RIVER TUNNEL SECTION 
 
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between the 
State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) and throughout the 
Northeast Corridor (the "NEC"), New Jersey and New York  created the Gateway Development 
Commission ("GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the 
Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36 -1, et seq.) 
(collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful 
purpose which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, 
the state of New York, with any  local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, 
department, commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state agency, 
Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more of them." 
2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
 
Accordingly, on February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation (“Amtrak”), and GDC (collectively, the “ PDA Parties”) entered into an Agreement 
(the “Project Development Agreement” or “PDA”) in order to establish their respective roles and 
responsibilities with respect to the funding, financing, right-of-way acquisition, procurement, 
delivery, and operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”). 
 
As further described in the PDA, the HTP has been organized into certain work packages, 
which may be updated or changed from time-to-time. The P1C: Hudson River Tunnel Section (the 
“Hudson River Tunnel Section ”) is a work package of the HTP, to be performed pursuant to a 
design-bid-build contract and includes but is not limited to the following work located in both 
New Jersey and New York:  a) construction of two (2) bored tunnels eastward from the Hudson 
County Shaft in Hudson County  to the 12th Avenue Shaft in Manhattan ; b) construction of nine 
(9) cross passages; and c) construction of an underpinning system to permanently re-support part 
of the Willow Avenue Viaduct.   
 
On October 4, 2024, a Request for Qualifications GDC23-005 was issued by GDC soliciting 
Statements of Qualifications ( “SOQ”) from entities interested in designing and constructing  the 
Hudson River Tunnel Section. SOQs were submitted to GDC in December, 2024. On February 3, 
2025, GDC identified a shortlist of the following qualified teams to receive an invitation to submit 
a proposal in response to a Request for Proposal (RFP) for a design -bid-build contractor that will 
perform construction and other related work for the Hudson River Tunnel  Section:  a) Gateway 
Tunnel Contractors (GTC) comprised of Halmar International, LLC and FCC Construction Inc., b) 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/27/2026 
 
 
2 
 
Hudson Tunnel Constructors (HTC) comprised of Dragados USA, Inc., Schiavone Construction Co. 
LLC, and The Lane Construction Corporation; and c)  Traylor / Walsh / Skanska JV comprised of 
Traylor Bros., Inc., Walsh Construction Company II, LLC, and Skanska USA Civil Northeast Inc. On 
July 3, 2025, GDC issued a federally compliant Request for Proposals to the se three (3) firms to 
provide construction services . One p roposal was received on October 8, 2025, from 
Traylor/Walsh/Skanska JV . The proposal  was reviewed by an Evaluation Panel consisting of  
technical experts and  representatives of GDC, the State of New York, NJ TRANSIT Corporation, 
the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey,  and Amtrak. The Evaluation Panel selected 
Traylor/Walsh/Skanska JV  through a competitive evaluation of technical and price proposals 
(together, with the Contract Documents issued as part of the RFP process, referred to as 
(“Contract GDC-26-008-HTP”)). 
 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Co -Chair 
Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair Glen, Vice Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Dominguez, 
Commissioner Herlinsky and Commissioner Braz voting in favor:  
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to enter into Contract GDC-
26-008-HTP with Traylor/Walsh/Skanska JV at the Contract Price of $1,282,922,966 and further 
authorizing an additional amount equal to  twenty percent (20%) of the Contract Price for 
contingencies (“Contingency”).  
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all other 
actions consistent with this resolution, and to make, execute, and deliver in the name and on 
behalf of GDC, Contract GDC-26-008-HTP and any other related documents, and to take all other 
steps necessary to effectuate, enforce and/or comply with the terms and conditions of Contract 
GDC-26-008-HTP. 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/27/2026 
 
#0426-02: APPROVAL OF MARKET CASE ESTIMATE FOR THE P1C: THE HUDSON RIVER TUNNEL 
SECTION 
  To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
New Jersey and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor (the " NEC"), the State of New 
Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) created the Gateway Development 
Commission ("GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codiﬁed as the 
Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y . Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36- 1, et seq.) 
(collectively, the "GDC Act").  
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry 
out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose 
which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with 
the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New 
York, with any local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, 
commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi- state agency, Amtrak, any 
individual or private ﬁrm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more of them." 2019 N.Y . Laws, 
Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e).  
On February 3, 2023, New Jersey, New York, the National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
(“Amtrak”), and the Gateway Development Commission (“GDC”) (collectively, the “PDA Parties”) 
entered into an agreement (the “ Project Development Agreement ”  o r  “PDA”) in order to 
establish their respective roles and responsibilities with respect to the funding, ﬁnancing, right -
of-way acquisition, procurement, delivery, and operation of the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”).  
As further described in the PDA, the HTP has been organized into certain work packages, 
which may be updated or changed from time-to-time. The P1C: The Hudson River Tunnel Section 
(the “Hudson River Tunnel Section”) is a work package of the HTP , to be performed pursuant to 
a design-bid-build contract and includes but is not limited to the following  work located in both 
New Jersey and New York:  a) construction of two (2) bored tunnels eastward from the Hudson 
County Shaft in Hudson County; b) construction of nine (9) cross passages; and c) construction of 
an underpinning system to permanently re-support part of the Willow Avenue Viaduct to the 12th 
Avenue Shaft in Manhattan.   
GDC staﬀ have calculated the Market Case Estimate for the Hudson River Tunnel Section 
based on bid pricing in accordance with the terms of the PDA. The Market Case Estimate is 
$2,079,867,631 and includes all ﬁnal negotiated costs and contingencies related to the 
construction and delivery of the Hudson River Tunnel Section.   
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Co-Chair 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/27/2026 
 
2 
 
Grewal-Virk, Co -Chair Glen, Vice Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner 
Dominguez, Commissioner Herlinsky and Commissioner Braz voting in favor:  
 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Board of Commissioners hereby approves the attached Market 
Case Estimate for the Hudson River Tunnel Section.  
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/27/2026 
 
3 
 
EXHIBIT A 
MARKET CASE ESTIMATE 
P1C: The Hudson River Tunnel Section 
(“Hudson River Tunnel Section”) 
 
Market Case Estimate for Hudson River 
Tunnel Section 
Estimate ($M) 
Construction, Mandatory Mitigations, 
Professional Services, ROW , Permits, and 
Third Party Agreements 
 
 
$1,796,593,307  
 
Contingency – Construction and Support 
Costs 
 
$283,274,324  
Total $2,079,867,631  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/27/2026 
 
#0426-03: AUTHORIZATION OF INCREASE TO CONTRACT GDC- 25-021-OP FOR INSURANCE 
BROKER SERVICES AND APPROVAL OF I NSURANCE PROGRAM TO SUPPORT THE HUDSON 
TUNNEL PROJECT   
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) and throughout 
the Northeast Corridor  (the "NEC"), New  Jersey and New York  created the Gateway 
Development Commission (" GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state 
codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 
32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any 
lawful purpose which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, 
the state of New York, with any  local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, 
department, commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state 
agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more 
of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
The State of New Jersey, State of New York and National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
(“Amtrak”) entered into a Project Development Agreement effective February 3, 2023 (“PDA”).  
Section 13.01(a) of the PDA requires GDC to retain an insurance advisor to advise the GDC Board 
regarding insurance coverage strategies and options for the Hudson Tunnel Project (“ HTP”) 
insurance program (“HTP Insurance Program”). 
On April 14, 2025, the GDC Board adopted Resolution 0425-02 authorizing Contract GDC-
25-021-OP with NFP Property & Casualty, Inc., an Aon Company (“ NFP”) in an amount not to 
exceed $30 million plus 10% for an initial term of  five (5) years ending in 2030 (“ Term”), and 
thereafter, GDC has the option to extend the term for up to four (4) two (2) year extensions 
which, if elected, which will end the term in 2038. 
By Resolution 0425-02 adopted by the GDC Board of Commissioners, Contract No. GDC-
25-021-OP with NFP was also authorized to develop and recommend the HTP Insurance 
Program, which shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners in consultation with the State 
of New Jersey, the State of New York, and Amtrak. 
NFP Property & Casualty Services, Inc. (“NFP”), GDC’s Insurance Broker, on GDC’s behalf, 
recommended insurance coverage to support the GDC owner controlled insurance program for 
general liabilities, workers compensation and excess liabilities insurance policies (collectively, 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/27/2026 
 
2 
 
the “ OCIP”) to be established for the P1C : The Hudson River Tunnel Section, P3 NJ Surface 
Alignment Project, and P2A 10 th Avenue Cut and Cover Project   (collectively, “OCIP Covered 
Packages”) within the HTP and builder’s risk,  pollution liability and professional liability policies 
to provide coverage for the OCIP Covered Packages and P2B Systems-Fit Out Project (“Policies”). 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Co-Chair 
Grewal-Virk, Co -Chair Glen, V ice Chair Coscia, Commissioner  Barbas, Commissio ner 
Dominguez, Commissioner Herlinsky and Commissioner Braz voting in favor:  
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to approve, create, amend, 
manage, and/or terminate the  OCIP for the OCIP Covered Packages  and the Policies by and 
through NFP under Contract GDC -25-021-OP in an additional amount not to exceed  
$322,443,051. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to execute such documents 
as may be required in connection with Broker Services, the OCIP and the Policies , and is further 
authorized to delegate suc h authority to the Chief Financial Officer, Deputy Chief of 
Administration-Procurement, Senior Director Risk Management and Claims, and other officers or 
employees of GDC  as may be required in connection with the administration of the  OCIP and 
Policies, including but not limited to, administration and renewal of existing and new insurance 
policies and contracts, review of insurance placement strategy and recommendation to purchase 
new insurance policies and services, administration of claims and alternative dispute resolution 
programs, creation of control accounts, and loss control and prevention, provided that the Chief 
Executive Officer provides notice in writing to the Co -Chairs and Vice Chair of the Board of such 
delegation, and any delegations of authority having occurred prior hereto are hereby ratified. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or designee may enter into and execute 
any other documents on behalf of GDC in connection with the Broker Services, the OCIP and/or 
the Policies in their discretion. 
 
 
 
  
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/27/2026 
 
   
 
#0426-04: AUTHORIZATION OF AWARD OF CONTRACT FOR THIRD PARTY ADMINISTRATION 
SERVICES TO SUPPORT THE HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT’S INSURANCE PROGRAM   
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) and throughout 
the Northeast Corridor  (the "NEC"), New  Jersey and New York  created the Gateway 
Development Commission (" GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state 
codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 
32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any 
lawful purpose which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, 
the state of New York, with any  local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, 
department, commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state 
agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more 
of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
In March 2026 a federally compliant Request for Proposals (“RFP”) No. GDC-26-034-OP 
was issued by NFP Property & Casualty Services, Inc. (“NFP”), GDC’s Insurance Broker, on GDC’s 
behalf, soliciting proposals from entities interested in providing third party administration 
services (“Services”) to support the GDC owner controlled insurance program for the general 
liabilities, workers compensation and excess liabilities insurance policies  (collectively, the 
“OCIP”) to be established for the P1C : The Hudson River Tunnel Section, P3 Palisades Tunnel 
Project, P2A 10
th Avenue Cut and Cover Project  (collectively, “OCIP Covered Packages”) within 
the Hudson Tunnel Project (“HTP”). Proposals were received from five (5) firms. The proposals 
were reviewed by an evaluation panel consisting of representatives of GDC  staff in Risk 
Management, Procurement,  and NFP (collectively, “Evaluation Panel”). The Evaluation Panel 
recommended three (3) firms to be invite d for oral presentations . Thereafter, GDC undertook 
the negotiation of terms and conditions , and price with each firm  and the Evaluation Panel 
recommended one (1 ) firm for award . The recommended firm was  found responsive and 
responsible.  The term of Contract GDC-26-034-OP shall remain in full force and effect , unless 
terminated earlier, until the later of (i) when all of the OCIP Covered Packages are  complete, or 
(ii) when all claims that are covered by the OCIP have been satisfied.  
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/27/2026 
 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Co-Chair 
Grewal-Virk, Co -Chair Glen, Vice Chair Coscia, Commissioner  Barbas, Commissioner 
Dominguez, Commissioner Herlinsky and Commissioner Braz voting in favor:  
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice 
President or Deputy Chief Administration-Procurement is authorized to enter into and execute 
Contract GDC-26-034-OP with Gallagher Bassett in an amount not to exceed $2,475,800.  
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or designee is authorized to increase 
Contract GDC-26-034-OP by an additional amount equal to five percent (5%) subject to the 
availability of funds, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms and conditions 
of GDC-26-034-OP. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, is authorized to delegate, in writing, the 
authority to authorize, approve, create, amend, manage, and/or terminate any aspect of Contract 
GDC-26-034-OP and execute such documents as may be required to Chief Financial Officer, 
Executive Vice President or Deputy Chief Administration -Procurement, or other officers or 
employees of GDC provided that the Chief Executive Officer provides notice in writing to the Co-
Chairs and Vice Chair of the Board of such delegation  and any delegations of authority having 
occurred prior hereto are hereby ratified. 
 
 
 
  
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/27/2026 
 
 
#0426-05: AUTHORIZATION OF FISCAL YEAR 2025 AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
 The Gateway Development Commission (the “ GDC”) is a public authority and 
government-sponsored authority created through the enactment of parallel legislation by the 
States of New York and New Jersey codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 
N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et. seq.) (collectively, the “GDC Act”). 
The GDC Act and the GDC Bylaws hold that the GDC Board of Commissioners “shall 
arrange for an independent firm of certified public accountants to perform an audit of the 
financial statements of the Commission each year…” 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2( 10)(b); 
N.J.S.A. 32:36-11(b). 
Pursuant to Resolution 0725-03, entitled “ Authorization of Award of Contract GDC -25-
032-OP For Auditing Services to Support the Hudson Tunnel Project” approved by the GDC Board 
at the July 28, 2025  meeting, the GDC Board delegated authority to the GDC CEO to award and 
approve an agreement with an independent ﬁrm of certiﬁed public accountants, containing such 
terms as the GDC CEO and applicable staﬀ deems necessary and advisable to eﬀectuate the 
foregoing transaction. 
In accordance with Resolution  0725-03, the Commission entered into an engagement 
letter with SC&H Attest Services, P .C. (“SCH”) to prepare audited ﬁnancial statements for the 2025 
ﬁscal year. As part of this engagement, and in accordance with the GDC Act and Bylaws, SCH 
serves as GDC’s independent auditor and is  required to report to the GDC Board of 
Commissioners. 
The GDC established an Audit Committee of the Board of Commissioners p ursuant to 
Resolution #  0523-02 entitled “Establishing the Gateway Development Commission’s Audit 
Committee, Governance and Operations Committee, and Project Delivery Committee ,” and 
Section 6.01 of the GDC’s Bylaws that provides “[t]he Board may establish standing or ad hoc 
committees (each, a “ Committee”) with such duties and powers as conferred by Board 
Resolution.” 
On April 9 , 2026, the Audit Committee of the Board of Commissioners met with GDC ’s 
independent auditor , SCH, to ensure appropriate reporting to the Board of Commissioners 
regarding its work auditing the Commission’s ﬁnancial statements for the 2025 ﬁscal year. 
Pursuant to the Bylaws and the Audit Committee Charter, the Audit Committee’s members 
have reviewed the Gateway Development Commission’s audited Financial Statements and 
Appended Note Disclosures for the ﬁscal year end ing December 31, 2025  (“2025 Financial 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted – 4/27/2026 
 
 
Statements”) and recommended to the Board that such Financial Statements be approved by 
GDC and be included in GDC’s 2025 Annual Report, as appropriate. 
The GDC Act requires that “[e]very ﬁnancial statement prepared pursuant to this section 
shall be approved by the board.”  2019 N.Y . Laws, Ch. 108, section 2(10)(c); N.J.S.A. 32:36-11(c). 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Co -Chair 
Grewal-Virk, Co -Chair Glen, V ice Chair Coscia, Commissioner Barbas, Commissio ner 
Dominguez, Commissioner Herlinsky and Commissioner Braz voting in favor:  
RESOLVED, in accordance with Section 8 of GDC’s Bylaws, the GDC Board of 
Commissioners hereby approves the 2025 Financial Statements and pursuant to such approval, 
the 2025 Financial Statements shall be published with the GDC’s Annual Report no later than 
April 30, 2026, in accordance with the GDC Act. 
 