  
Ga
teway Development Commission 
Regular Meeting of the Board  
In-Person (New Jersey) 
August 20, 2025 
MI
NUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Victor Herlinsky 
Amy Rosen 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
AMTRAK 
Anthony R. Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. Ca
ll to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk at approximately 10:00 A.M.
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk advised that public comments were being  solicited in-person and virtually,
and audio of the meeting was being live streamed from the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and 
that a form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway Program website for those who 
wished to submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting Secretary Anderson conducted a roll call and confirmed that all Commissioners were 
present except Commissioner Dominguez who was absent and Commissioner Rosen who joined at 10:30 
A.M., and that there was a quorum.
Acting Secretary Anderson stated that adequate notice of today’s public meeting of the Board of 
Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s enabling 
legislation. 
II. Report on Minutes of July 28, 2025, Meeting
Acting Secretary Anderson reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of July 28, 2025
were delivered in electronic form to the Governors of New York and New Jersey on July 29, 2025, and that 
the time for action by the Governors of New York and New Jersey expired at midnight on August 12, 2025, 
at which time the actions recorded in the Minutes went into full force and effect.  
III. Public Comments
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk announced that the Commission had solicited virtual comments from the
public in advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for soliciting these comments 
was posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout today’s meeting.  
There were three (3) written comment(s) received by 5:00 PM on August 19, 2025: 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
2 
Commenter Topic 
Jacob Kocsis , Associated Construction 
Contractors of New Jersey 
Project Labor Agreement 
Nathan Kilber t, United Steelworkers 
International Union 
Project Labor Agreement 
Samuel Turvey , Rethink NYC, Empire Station 
Coalition, Penn Community Defense Fund 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that all written comments received by 5:00 P.M. on August 19, 2025, 
before the meeting, were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and would 
be filed in the Commission’s records after the meeting.  
The following individuals provided in-person public comments during the August 20, 2025, Board 
Meeting:  
Commenter Topic 
Rob Harms, George Harms Construction Project Labor Agreement 
Mike Fisher, United Steelworkers Project Labor Agreement 
John Wade, Iron Workers Local 11 Project Labor Agreement 
Chris Lalevee, IUOE 825 Project Labor Agreement 
Steven Gardner, NJ LECET Project Labor Agreement 
Robert Fawcett, Labor Eastern Region Project Labor Agreement 
D.J. Heal, IBEW 164 Project Labor Agreement 
Ray Heineman, Hudson County Building Trades 
Council 
Project Labor Agreement 
Jacob Kocsis, Associated Construction Contractors 
of New Jersey  
Project Labor Agreement 
Jerry Keenan, NJ Alliance for Action Hudson Tunnel Project 
IV. Gat
eway Program Update
The Commission’s Chief Executive  Officer, Thomas Prendergast, provided an update on the
projects within the Hudson Tunnel Project under construction.  Chief Executive  Officer Thomas 
Prendergast and Chief Financial Officer Patrick J. McCoy presented the action items. Following the 
presentation, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk thanked Mr. Prendergast and Mr. McCoy for the update, and there 
were no questions or comments from the Board.  
V. Action Items
#0825-01:  Hudson Tunnel Project – NJ Surface Alignment – Authorization to Execute Labor 
Agreement. 
The Boa
rd acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Herlinsky made a motion, and Co-Chair Glen 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

3 
 
seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the attached 
Resolution. Mr. Prendergast was recused from this matter.
#0825-02: Authorization of Award of Contract GDC-25-029-OP for Engineer of Record Services and 
Engineering Services During Construction to Support the Hudson Tunnel Project. 
The Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Herlinsky made a motion, and Commissioner 
Rosen seconded the motion. The Resolution was approved.  The roll call vote is referenced in the 
attached Resolution. 
VI.
Adjournment
Co-Chair Grewal-Virk noted that there was no further business to conduct and then motioned to
adjourn the meeting. U pon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair Grewal-Virk and seconded  by 
Commissioner Herlinsky the meeting was adjourned at approximately 11:00 A.M.  
Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ M
aria C. Anderson 
Maria C. Anderson, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/20/25 
   
1 
 
#0825-01: HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT –  NJ SURFACE ALIGNMENT  – AUTHORIZATION TO 
EXECUTE LABOR AGREEMENT  
The Hudson Tunnel Project will improve resiliency, reliability, and redundancy for the 
busiest section of the Northeast Corridor (“ NEC”) – the busiest passenger rail line in the United 
States. The Hudson Tunnel Project (“ HTP”), for funding and financing purposes, includes the 
construction of a new Hudson River Tunnel between New York and New Jersey, and the 
rehabilitation of the existing 112-year-old North River Tunnel under the Hudson River.  
The NJ Surface Alignment P3 Project (“NJSA”) consists of installation of new trackway 
adjacent to the existing NEC, from the east side of County Road in Secaucus, NJ extending to the 
property west of Tonnelle Avenue in North Bergen, N ew Jersey. NJSA includes the design and 
construction of retaining walls with fill, a railroad bridge over Secaucus Road, a viaduct over 
wetlands, access roads with an open- grate trestle section, parking improvements at adjacent 
properties, two railroad bridges over the New York, Susquehanna and Western Railway 
(“NYS&W”) a nd Conrail freight railroads, utility relocations, auxiliary substation relocation, 
culvert extensions, and other miscellaneous structures. A significant portion of the construction 
will be occurring immediately adjacent to, and in some cases, upon and pot entially above, the 
live railroad tracks of the NEC operated by both Amtrak and NJ TRANSIT, and adjacent to and 
above live tracks of the Conrail and NYS&W freight railroads. 
The Gateway Development Commission (the “Commission”) is a public and government 
sponsored authority established by bi -state legislation (the “ GDC Act”) in July 2019. The 
Commission is serving as the NEPA Project Sponsor and federal grant recipient for the Hudson 
Tunnel Project.  
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to “enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to carry 
out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful purpose 
which the commissioners determine will Facilitate the Project, including, without limitation, with 
the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, the state of New 
York, with any local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, department, 
commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi- state agency, Amtrak, any 
individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more of them.” 2019 N.Y. 
Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e).  
The GDC Act further empowers the Commission to “utilize the existing labor force in the 
states and foster labor harmony in allowing for adoption of efficient labor work rules and 
practices during construction of the Project.” 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Secti on 7(q); N.J.S.A. § 
32:36-8(q).  
A project labor agreement is a pre -hire collective bargaining agreement that establishes 
the terms and conditions of employment for a project.   

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2 
Adopted 8/20/25 
The Project Development Agreement for the Hudson Tunnel Project (the “PDA”) , a 
foundational agreement  between the S tates of New Jersey and New York, Amtrak, and the 
Commission regarding delivery of the Hudson Tunnel Project, provides, at Article IV, Section 
4.01(b), that the Commission shall “engage with labor constituencies and lead the development 
and negotiation of applicable project labor agreement(s)” for the Hudson Tunnel Project.  
The Commission has engaged, via its outside counsel, a consultant to conduct a study to 
determine if it is in the Commission’s interest to negotiate and execute a project labor agreement 
for NJSA based on considerations such as the impact of delay, the possibility of cost savings 
advantages, and the promotion of labor harmony which are best met by requiring a project labor 
agreement.  The labor study recommends that the Commission negotiate and execute  a project 
labor agreement for NJSA.  
Based on the conclusions in this study, the Commission and the unions representing the 
trades who have jurisdiction of the work on NJSA (the “ Parties”) engaged  in negotiations 
regarding the terms and conditions of employment for NJSA (“Labor Agreement”).   
By Resolution 0725-04 approved by the Board on July 28, 2025, the Chief Executive Officer 
was delegated authority to make, negotiate, execute and deliver in the name and on behalf of 
GDC the Labor Agreement and any amendments thereto, including finalizing the terms of the 
Labor Agreement, any Exhibits or memoranda to the Labor Agreement, but was required to 
request Board approval of the Labor Agreement prior to execution. 
The terms and conditions of employment are memorialized in the  Labor Agreement 
between the Commission and the Hudson County Building and Construction Trades Council, AFL-
CIO (the “BTC”) on behalf of itself and signatory unions represented by BTC in the jurisdiction of 
NJSA, a
ttached as Exhibit A.  In addition, Article 2, Section 8 of the Labor Agreement permits the 
work to be performed by any successful bidder of NJSA. 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was adopted, with Vice Chair 
Coscia, Co-Chair Glen, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Herlinsky, and 
Commissioner Rosen voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is delegated authority to take any and 
all actions consistent with this resolution, and to make, negotiate, execute and deliver in the 
name and on behalf of GDC the Labor Agreement attached hereto as Exhibit A, and any 
amendments thereto, including finalizing the terms of the Labor Agreement, any Exhibits or 
memoranda to the Labor Agreement, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the 
terms and conditions of the Labor Agreement,  including enforcing the terms of the Labor 
Agreement as may be required. 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, is authorized to delegate, in writing, the 
authority to authorize, approve, create, amend, manage, and/or execute other documents as 
may be required in connection with the Labor Agreement to other officers or employees of GDC 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/20/25 
   
3 
 
provided that the Chief Executive Officer provides notice in writing to the Co -Chairs and Vice 
Chair of the Board of such delegation. 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/20/25 
   
4 
 
EXHIBIT A 
 LABOR AGREEMENT  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

1 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT 
COVERING THE NEW JERSEY SURFACE 
ALIGNMENT (PACKAGE 3) PROJECT 
IN HUDSON COUNTY, NEW JERSEY  
ARTICLE 1 - PREAMBLE 
WHEREAS, the Gateway Development Commission (the “ Owner”) desires to provide for the 
efficient, safe, quality, and timely  completion of the constructio n of the New Jersey 
Surface Alignment (Package 3)  Project (the “Project”), which is part of a larger construction 
plan known as the Hudson Tunnel Project, in a manner designed to afford lower reasonable costs 
to the Owner, and the Public it represents, and the advancement of public policy objectives; 
WHEREAS, this Project Labor Agreement conforms to the provisions of N.J.S.A. 52:38- 1, et seq. 
and will foster the achievement of these goals, inter alia by: 
(1) ensuring a reliable source of skilled and experienced labor;
(2) standardizing the terms and conditions governing the employment of labor on the
Project;
(3) permitting wide flexibility in work scheduling and shift hours and times; from those
which otherwise might obtain;
(4) receiving negotiated adjustments as to work rules and staffing requirements from
those which otherwise might obtain;
(5) providing comprehensive and standardized mechanisms for the settlement of work
disputes, including those relating to jurisdiction;
(6) avoiding the costly delays of potential strikes, slowdowns, walkouts, picketing and
other disruptions arising from work disputes, and promote labor harmony and peace
for the duration of the Project.
(7) ensuring compliance with applicable requirements for participation of
Disadvantaged Business Enterprises and furthering public policy objectives as to

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
2 
 
improved employment opportunities for the economically disadvantaged in the 
construction industry; and 
(8) expediting the construction process; and 
 WHEREAS, the signatory Unions desire the stability, security and work opportunities  afforded 
by a Project Labor Agreement; and 
WHEREAS, the Parties desire to maximize Project safety conditions for both workers  and the 
public. 
NOW, THEREFORE, the Parties enter into this Project Labor Agreement: 
 
SECTION 1. PARTIES TO THE AGREEMENT 
This is a Project Labor Agreement (“Agreement”) entered into by and between the Owner and by 
the Hudson County Building and Construction Trades Council, AFL-CIO (the “BTC”) on behalf of 
itself and its affiliates and members and the signatory local unions (the “Unions”).  This Agreement 
shall be effective upon its execution by the Owner and the BTC. 
ARTICLE 2 - GENERAL CONDITIONS 
 
SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS 
Throughout this Agreement, the Gateway Development Commission is referenced as the “Owner” 
or “GDC”; the Hudson County  Building and Construction Trades Council, AFL-CIO is referenced 
as the “BTC”; the term “Contractor(s)” shall include the C ontractor awarded a prime contract for 
the Project (the “Prime Contractor ”), and all signatory contractors, and their subcontractors of 
whatever tier, engaged in on- site Project construction work within the scope of this Agreement as 
defined in Article 3;  and the work covered by this Agreement (as defined in Article 3) is referred to 
as the “Project”;  the term “Schedule A  Agreement” shall refer to the agreements identified in 
Schedule A of this Agreement; and t he Union party and the BTC are referred to singularly and 
collectively as “the Union(s)” where specific reference is made to “Local Unions” that phrase is 
sometimes used.  
SECTION 2. CONDITIONS FOR AGREEMENT TO BECOME EFFECTIVE 
This Agreement shall not become effective unless executed by the BTC and the Owner and will 
remain in effect until Project Completion but no later than January 25, 2038. Project Completion is 
the level of completion of  the Project or a system/facility of the P roject at which: (a) the Prime 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
3 
 
Contractor has completed the work of its contract with the Owner for the Project, including all 
customary finish work, in accordance with applicable contract documents (except for Punch List 
items), and in accordance with the requirements of any permits, licenses and certificates of 
compliance or occupancy required by laws or by any governmental authority; (b) there are no 
material or substantial variations in the work from the applicable contract requirements; (c) the work 
is fit for its intended purpose; and (d) where required, the work has been substantially tested by the 
Prime Contractor, or by others as required, and has passed all test requirement s, whichever occurs 
later. As the contracts which comprise the Project work are completed and accepted, the Agreement 
shall not have further force or effect on such items or areas except where inspections, additions, repairs, 
modifications, check-out and/or warranty work are assigned in writing (copy to Local Union involved) 
by the Prime Contractor for performance under the terms of this Agreement. 
SECTION 3. ENTITIES BOUND & ADMINISTRATION OF AGREEMENT 
This Agreement shall be binding on all signatory Unions and Contractors performing Project work, 
including site preparation and staging areas, as defined in Article 3.  The Contractors shall include 
in any subcontract that they let, for performance during the term of this Agreement, a requirement 
that their subcontractors, of whatever tier, become signatory and bound by this Agreement with 
respect to subcontracted work pe rformed within the scope of Article 3 by executing the Letter of 
Assent attached as Exhibit 2. This Agreement shall be administered by the Owner and by the Prime 
Contractor on behalf of all Contractors. 
SECTION 4. SUPREMACY CLAUSE 
This Agreement, together with the local Collective Bargaining Agreements appended hereto and 
referred to herein in  as Schedule A, represent the complete understanding of all signatories and 
supersedes any national agreement, local agreement or other collective bargaining agreement of any 
type which would otherwise apply to this Project, in whole or in part, except for all work performed 
under the NTD Articles of Agreement, the National Stack/Chimney Agreement, the National 
Cooling Tower Agreement, all instrument calibration work and loop checking shall be performed 
under the terms of the UA/IBEW Joint National Agreement for Instrument an d Control Systems 
Technicians, and the National Agreement of the International Union of Elevator Constructors, with 
the exception of Article 7, 9  and 10 of this Project Agreement, which shall apply to such work.   
Where a subject covered by the provisions, of this Agreement is also covered by a  Schedule A 
Agreements, the provisions of this Agreement shall prevail. It is further understood that neither the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
4 
 
Prime Contractor nor any Contractor shall be required to sign any other agreement as a condition 
of performing work on this Project, other than the Letter of Assent attached hereto as Exhibit 
2.  No practice, understanding or agreement between a Contractor and a Local Union, which is 
not explicitly set forth in this Agreement, shall be binding on this Project unless endorsed in writing 
by the Prime Contractor. 
SECTION 5. LIABILITY 
The liability of any Contractor and the liability of any Union under this Agreement shall be several 
and not joint.  The Owner shall not be liable for any violations of this Agreement.   The Prime 
Contractor and any Contractor shall not be liable for any violations of this Agreement by any other 
Contractor and the BTC and Local Unions  shall not be liable for any violations of this Agreement 
by any other Union. 
SECTION 6. THE OWNER AND THE PRIME CONTRACTOR 
The Owner and the Prime Contractor shall require in their bid specifications for all work within the 
scope of Article 3 that all successful bidders, and their subcontractors of whatever tier, become 
bound by, and signatory to, this Agreement. The Owner shall not be liable in any manner under this 
Agreement. It is understood that nothing in this Agreement shall be construed as limiting the sole 
discretion of the Owner  and the Prime Contractor  in determining which Contractors shall be 
awarded contracts for Project work. It is further understood that the Owner and the Prime Contractor 
have sole discretion at any time to terminate, delay or suspend the work, in whole or part, on this 
Project. 
SECTION 7.  ASSIGNMENT 
The terms and conditions of this Agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the 
Parties hereto and their successors, assigns and legal representatives and to the Prime Contractor, 
and Contractors performing Project work.  The Prime Contract or may freely assign its rights and 
obligations under this Agreement to an affiliated entity. Should the Prime Contractor desire to assign 
its rights and obligations under this Agreement to any entity other than an affiliated entity, it may 
do so with the written consent of the BTC, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, 
conditioned or delayed. 
SECTION 8. AVAILABILITY AND APPLICABILITY TO ALL SUCCESSFUL 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
5 
 
BIDDERS 
The Unions agree that this Agreement will be made available to, and will fully apply to any 
successful bidder for Project work who becomes signatory thereto, without regard to whether  that 
successful bidder performs work at other sites on either a union or non- union basis and without 
regard to whether employees of such successful bidder are, or are not, members of any unions. This 
Agreement shall not apply to the work of any Contractor or  Prime Contractor, which is performed 
at any location other than a Project site, as defined in Article 3, Section 1. 
ARTICLE 3 - SCOPE OF THE AGREEMENT 
The Project work covered by this Project Labor Agreement shall be as defined and limited by the 
following sections of this Article. 
SECTION 1: THE WORK 
This Agreement shall apply to all of the on -site  construction work performed for the Project,   
including site preparation and staging areas, demolition and hazardous waste remediation, and all 
components or structures pre -fabricated to specifications, and all pre -fabricated materials and 
operations  covered by the New Jersey Prevailing Wage Act and the Davis Bacon and Related Acts, 
performed for the Owner’s New Jersey Surface Alignment (Package 3) construction. 
The scope of work is confined to the Project work contained in the scope of the final construction 
contract of the Prime Contractor. The scope of work may be amended in accordance with any design 
build agreement between the Owner and the Prime Contractor. 
SECTION 2. EXCLUDED EMPLOYEES 
The following persons are not subject to the provisions of this Agreement, even though performing 
work on the Project: 
A. Superintendents, supervisors (excluding superintendents and general 
supervisors and forepersons specifically covered by a craft's Schedule A 
Agreements), engineers, inspectors and testers (excluding divers specifically 
covered by a craft’s Schedule A Agreements), quality control/assurance 
personnel, timekeepers, mail carriers, clerks, office workers, messengers, 
guards, non-manual employees, and all professional, engineering, 
administrative and management persons, technical advisors,  and safety 
advisors; 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
6 
 
B. Employees of the Owner or any State, bi-state, or Federal agency, authority or 
entity, including, but not limited to, Amtrak, N.J. Transit, the New Jersey 
Turnpike Authority, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, and 
their successors, and employees of any municipality or other public employer; 
C. Employees and entities who are engaged in off-site manufacture, 
modifications, repair, maintenance, assembly, painting, handling or 
fabrication of project components, materials, equipment or machinery, unless 
such offsite operations are covered by the New Jersey Prevailing Wage Act or 
the Davis Bacon Act (for example,  by being dedicated exclusively to the 
performance of the public works contract or building project and are adjacent 
to the site of work), or who are  involved in deliveries to and from the Project 
site, excepting local deliveries of all major construction materials including 
fill, ready mix  concrete and cement and  asphalt  which are covered by this 
Agreement. Provided, however, local deliveries of ready mix, concrete, 
cement and asphalt shall not be contracted except to a subcontractor who pays 
wages and benefits not less than the economic equivalent of the wages and 
benefits set forth in 
Schedule  A Agreements;  
D. Employees of the Prime Contractor and Contractors, excepting those 
performing manual, on-site construction labor who will be covered by this 
Agreement; 
E. Employees engaged in on-site or off-site equipment warranty work. 
F. Employees engaged in geophysical testing (whether land or water) other than 
boring for core samples; 
G. Employees engaged in laboratory or specialty testing or inspections; 
H. Employees engaged in ancillary Project work performed by third parties such 
as electric utilities, gas utilities, telephone utility companies, and railroads and 
workers engaged in servicing chemical toilets and sanitary holding tanks. 
 
SECTION 3. NON-APPLICATION TO CERTAIN ENTITIES 
This Agreement shall not apply to the parents, affiliates, subsidiaries, or other joint or sole ventures 
of any Contractor or of Prime Contractor, which do not perform work at this Project. It is agreed, 
for the purposes of this Agreement only, that this A greement does not have the effect of creating 
any joint employment, single employer or alter ego status among the Owner, the Prime Contractor 
and/or any Contractor. The Agreement shall further not apply to the Owner or any other federal, bi-
state, state or  county or municipal agency, authority, or other public entity and nothing contained 
herein shall be construed to prohibit or restrict the Owner or its employees or  any other federal, bi-
state, state, or county agency,  authority, or other municipal or public  entity and its employees from 
performing on or off-site work related to the Project.  
SECTION 4.  TEMPORARY SERVICES  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
7 
 
Temporary services for equipment or machinery that is temporary or has not been accepted by the 
Owner shall be provided pursuant to the applicable Trade’s Schedule A Agreement. There shall be 
no requirement for temporary services at the Project site, where no Contractor employees are 
scheduled,  solely because: (a) safety lights are left on; or (b) equipment is charging.   
ARTICLE 4 – UNION RECOGNITION AND EMPLOYMENT 
SECTION 1. PRE-HIRE RECOGNITION 
The Contractors recognize the signatory Unions as the sole and exclusive bargaining representatives 
of all craft employees who are performing on-site Project work within the scope of this Agreement 
as defined in Article 3. 
SECTION 2. UNION REFERRAL 
A. The Contractors agree to hire Project, craft employees covered by this Agreement through 
the job referral systems and hiring halls (where the referrals meet the qualifications set forth 
in items 1,2,  3 and 4 subparagraph B) established in the Local Unions’ area collective 
bargaining agreements (attached as Schedule A  to this Agreement), subject to the goals of 
any applicable local ordinances or agreements pertaining to hiring and apprenticeship goals 
as permitted by general law, regulations or guidance appl icable to the Project . 
Notwithstanding this, the Contractors shall have sole rights to determine the competency of 
all referrals; the number of employees required (except with regard to pile driving and cranes, 
subject to mutual agreement between the Contractor and the Local Union.); the selection of 
employees to be laid-off (subject to the applicable procedures in Schedule A for permanent  
and/or  temporary layoffs and except as provided in Article 5, Section 3);  and the sole right 
to reject any applicant referred by a Local Union, (subject to the show-up payments required 
in any applicable Schedule A Agreements).  In the event that a Local Union is unable to fill 
any request for qualified employees within a 48- hour period after such requisition is made 
by the Contractor (Saturdays, Sundays, and holidays excepted), the Contractor may employ 
qualified applicants from another competent source. In the event that the Local Union does 
not have a job referral system, the Contractor shall give the Local Union first preference to 
refer applicants, subject to the other provisions of this Article.  The Contractor shall notify 
the Local Union of the craft employees performing Project work hired within its jurisdiction 
from any source other than referral by the Union. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
8 
 
B. A Contractor may request by name, and the Local will honor, referral of persons who have 
applied to the Local for Project work and who meet the following qualifications: 
(1) possess any license required by NJ law for the Project work to be 
performed; 
(2) have worked a total of at least 1000 hours in the Construction craft 
during the prior 3 years; 
(3) were on the Contractor's active payroll for at least 60 out of the 
180 calendar days prior to the contract award; 
(4) have demonstrated ability to safely perform the basic function of the 
applicable trade. 
Following the employment of the first employee in each craft under Schedule A  or the 
procedure set forth above in paragraph A, no more than twelve (12%) per centum of the 
employees covered by this Agreement, per Contractor by craft,  shall be hired through the 
special provisions above (any fraction shall be rounded to the next highest whole number). 
C. A certified disadvantaged business enterprise (“DBEs”) contractor may request, through the 
Prime Contractor, an exception to, and waiver of, the above per centum limitation upon the 
number of its employees to be hired through the special provision of subparagraph B above. 
This exception is based upon hardship and demonstration by the contractor that the Project 
work would be the contractor’s only job and that it would be obliged to lay off qualified 
employees in its current workforce who are moving from the last job and are required to be 
retained by the DBE pursuant to applicable law as existing  now or in the  future. The 
exception and waiver are also conditioned upon the employees meeting the qualifications as 
set forth in Section 2.B above. 
D. Project Work is being funded in part through the United States Department of Transportation 
(“U.S. DOT”). Regulations from the Federal Transit Administration (“FTA”) require that 
the Owner, as a recipient of U.S. DOT funding, set an overall disadvantaged business 
enterprise (“DBEs”) participation goal , which is 20%. The Owner’s compliance with the 
DBEs participation goal is subject to auditing and monitoring by the FTA. The Unions are 
committed to utilize best efforts to assist the Owner and the Prime Contractor in reaching its 
DBEs participation goal for Project Work, including, without limitation, providing the Prime 
Contractor a full list of DBE contractors that are a sign atory to their respective Schedule A 
Agreements. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
9 
 
SECTION 3. NON-DISCRIMINATION IN REFERRALS 
The Unions represent that their hiring halls and referral systems will be operated in a non-  
discriminatory manner and in full compliance with all applicable federal, state and local laws and 
regulations, which require equal employment opportunities.  Referrals shall not be affected in any 
way by the rules, regulations, bylaws, constitutional provisions or any other aspects or obligations 
of union membership, policies or requirements and shall be subject to such other conditions as are 
established in this Article. No employment applicant shall be discriminated against by any referral 
system or hiring hall because of the applicant's union membership, or lack thereof. 
SECTION 4. CROSS AND QUALIFIED REFERRALS 
The Unions shall not knowingly refer to a Contractor an employee then employed by another 
Contractor working under this Agreement. The Local Unions will exert their utmost efforts to recruit 
sufficient numbers of skilled and qualified craft employees to fulfill the requirements of the 
Contractor.   
SECTION 5. UNION DUES / WORKING ASSESSMENTS 
The union security provisions contained in the applicable Schedule A Agreements, shall not apply 
to the employees covered by this Agreement as for the period of time during which they are 
performing on-site Project work . No employee shall be discriminated against at the Project site 
because of the employee's union membership or lack thereof. In the case of unaffiliated employees 
who have voluntarily executed dues checkoff authorization cards provided in a Schedule A  
Agreement, the dues payment can be received by the Unions as a working assessment fee. 
SECTION 6. CRAFT FOREPERSONS AND GENERAL FOREPERSONS 
The selection of craft forepersons and/or general forepersons and the number of forepersons required 
shall be solely the responsibility of the Contractor  except where otherwise provided by specific 
provisions of an applicable Schedule A .  All forepersons shall take orders exclusively from the 
designated Contractor representatives. Craft forepersons shall be designated as working forepersons 
at the request of the Contractor , except when an existing local Collective Bargaining Agreement 
prohibits a foreperson from working when the craftsperson he is leading exceed at least 10 persons. 
ARTICLE 5 - UNION REPRESENTATION 
 
SECTION 1. LOCAL UNION REPRESENTATIVE 
Each Local Union representing on- site Project employees shall be entitled to designate in writing 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
10 
 
(copy to Prime Contractor) one representative and/or an alternate,  and the Business Manager, who 
shall be afforded access to the Project. 
SECTION 2. STEWARDS 
A. Each Local Union shall have the right to designate a working journey person as a Steward 
and an alternate, and shall notify the Contractor and Prime Contractor of the identity of the 
designated Steward (and alternate) prior to the assumption of such duties. Stewards shall not 
exercise supervisory functions and will receive  the regular rate of pay for their craft 
classifications. There will be no non-working Stewards on the Project. The Steward shall be 
on the site whenever an employee of his craft is working. 
B. In addition to their work as an employee, the Steward shall have the right to receive  
complaints or grievances and to discuss and assist in their adjustment with the Contractor's 
appropriate supervisor. Each Steward shall be concerned with the employees of the Steward's 
Contractor and, if applicable, subcontractors of that Contractor, but not with the employees 
of any other Contractor.  The Contractor will not discriminate against the Steward in the 
proper performance of Union duties. 
C. The Stewards shall not have the right to determine when overtime shall be worked, or who 
shall work overtime. 
SECTION 3. LAYOFF OF A STEWARD 
Contractors agree to notify the appropriate Union 24 hours prior to the layoff of a Steward, except 
in cases of discipline or discharge for just cause.   If a Steward is protected against layoff by a 
Schedule A, such provisions shall be recognized to the extent the Steward possesses the necessary 
qualifications to perform the work required.  In any case in which a Steward is discharged or 
disciplined for just cause, the Local Union involved shall be notified immediately by the Contractor. 
ARTICLE 6 - MANAGEMENT'S RIGHTS 
 
SECTION 1. RESERVATION OF RIGHTS 
Except as expressly limited by a specific provision of this Agreement, Contractors  retain full and 
exclusive authority for the management of their Project operations including, but not limited to: the 
right to direct the work force, including determination as to the number to be hired and the 
qualifications therefore; the promotion, transfer, layoff of its employees; require compliance with 
the directive of the GDC, including standard restrictions related to security and access to the Project 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
11 
 
site that are equally applicable to GDC, guests, or vendors;  or the discipline or discharge  for just 
cause of its employees; the assignment and schedule of work; implement a timekeeping system of 
their choosing; the promulgation of reasonable Project work rules; and, the requirement, timing and 
number of employees to be utilized for overtime work. No rules, customs, or practices, which limit 
or restrict productivity  or efficiency of the individual, as determined by the Contractor,  Prime 
Contractor, and/or joint working efforts with other employees shall be permitted or observed. 
SECTION 2. MATERIALS, METHODS & EQUIPMENT 
There shall be no limitations or restriction upon the C ontractors' choice of materials, techniques, 
methods, technology or design, or, regardless of source or location, upon the use and installation of 
equipment, machinery, package units, pre -cast, pre- fabricated, pre- finished, or pre -assembled 
materials, tool, or other labor -saving devices. Contractors may, without restriction, install or use 
materials, supplies or equipment regardless of their source.  The on-site installation or application 
of such items shall be performed by the craft having jurisdiction over such work; provided, however, 
it is recognized that other personnel having special qualifications may participate, in a supervisory 
capacity, in the installation, check-out or testing of specialized or unusual equipment or facilities as 
designated by the Contractor. Notwithstanding the foregoing statement of contractor rights, 
prefabrication issues relating to work traditionally performed at the job site shall be governed 
pursuant to the terms of the applicable Schedule A. There shall be no restrictions as to work, which 
is performed off-site for the Project, except for 1) offsite operations work covered under the New 
Jersey Prevailing Wage Act  or the Davis Bacon and Related Acts , including  all components or 
structures pre-fabricated to specifications, or 2) done in a fabrication center, tool yard, or batch plant 
dedicated exclusively to the performance of work on the Project, and located adjacent to the “site of 
work”. Where available locally, offsite operations work covered under  the New Jersey Prevailing 
Wage Act  and the Davis Bacon and  Related Acts  shall be performed within the territorial 
jurisdiction of the local unions signatory to this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 7 - WORK STOPPAGES AND LOCKOUTS 
 
SECTION 1. NO STRIKES-NO LOCKOUT 
There shall not be strikes, sympathy  strikes, picketing, work stoppages, slowdowns, hand billing, 
bannering, demonstrations, walkouts, display or inflatables or other disruptive activity of any kind 
(collectively, “Prohibited Activity”) at the Project for any reason by any Union or employee , 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
12 
 
including, but not limited to,  jurisdictional disputes,  against any Contractor or employer  while 
performing work at the Project. There  shall be no other Union or concerted or employee activity 
which disrupts or interferes with the operation of Project Work, the objectives of GDC,  or the 
existing free flow of traffic in the project area. Failure of any Union or employee to cross any picket 
line established by any union, signatory or non -signatory to this Agreement, or the picket or 
demonstration line of any other organization, at or in proximity to the Project site is a violation of 
this Article. There shall be no lockout at the Project by any Contractor. Contractors and Unions 
shall take all steps necessary to ensure compliance with this Section 1 and to ensure uninterrupted 
construction and the free flow of traffic in the project area for the duration of this Agreement. Should 
any employees breach this provision, the Unions will use their best efforts to immediately end that 
breach and return all employees to work. 
SECTION 2. DISCHARGE FOR VIOLATION 
A Contractor may discharge any employee violating Section 1, above, and any such employee will 
not be eligible thereafter for referral under this Agreement for a period of at least 100 days. 
SECTION 3. NOTIFICATION 
If GDC or a Contractor contends that any Union has violated this Article, it will notify the 
appropriate district or area council of the Local Union involved advising of such fact, with copies of 
the notification to the Local Union and the BTC  and any affected Contractor. The district or area 
council, and the BTC shall each instruct, order and otherwise use their best efforts to cause the 
employees, and/or the Local Unions to immediately cease and desist from any violation of this 
Article. A district or area council, or the BTC complying with these obligations shall not be liable 
for the unauthorized acts of a Local Union or its members. 
SECTION 4. EXPEDITED ARBITRATION 
Any Contractor or Union alleging a violation of Section 1 of this Article may utilize the expedited 
procedure set forth below (in lieu of, or in addition to, any actions at law or equity)  that may be 
brought. 
A. A party invoking this procedure shall notify the next available of J.J. Pierson,  Richard 
Adelman, Scott Buchheit, and Gary Kendellen, who shall serve as arbitrator under this 
expedited procedure. Copies of such notification will be simultaneously sent to the 
alleged violator and, if a Local Union is alleged to  be in violation, its International, the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
13 
 
Owner, Prime Contractor, and the BTC. In the event any one of the named arbitrators 
withdraws himself, retires or passes away, the Owner and the BTC or their de signees 
shall promptly meet and negotiate over a mutually agreeable arbitrator or arbitrators to 
replace him or them. 
 
B. The Arbitrator shall thereupon, after notice as to time and place to the Contractor, the  
Prime Contractor, the Owner, the Local Union involved, and the BTC, hold  a hearing 
within 48 hours of receipt of the notice invoking the procedure if it is contended that the 
violation still exists. The hearing will not, however, be scheduled for less than 24 hours 
after the notice to the district or area council required by Section 3 above. Hearings shall 
be held at the jobsite or at the Newark office of the New Jersey State Board of Mediation, 
as directed by the Arbitrator provided, upon mutual agreement of the parties, the hearing 
may be conducted virtually via Zoom, Microsoft Teams, or similar technological 
platforms. 
C. All notices pursuant to this Article may be by telephone, email, hand  delivery, or fax, 
confirmed by overnight delivery, to the arbitrator, Contractor or Union involved.  The 
hearing may be held on any day including Saturdays or Sundays.  The hearing shall be 
completed in one session, which shall not exceed eight hours duration (no more than four 
hours being allowed to either side to present their case, and conduct their cross 
examination) unless otherwise agreed. A failure of any Union or Contractor to attend the 
hearing shall not delay the hearing of evidence by those present or the issuance of an 
award by the Arbitrator. 
D. The sole issue at the hearing shall be whether a violation of Section 1, above, occurred.  
If a violation is found to have occurred, the Arbitrator shall issue a Cease and Desist 
Award restraining such violation and serve copies on the Contractor and Union involved. 
The Arbitrator shall have no authority to consider any matter in justification, explanation 
or mitigation of such violation or to award damages, which issue is reserved solely for 
court proceedings, if any. The Award shall be issued in writing within three hours after 
the close of the hearing, and may be issued without an Opinion.  If any involved party 
desires an Opinion, one shall be issued within 15 calendar days, but its issuance shall 
not delay compliance with, or enforcement of, the Award. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
14 
 
E. An Award issued under this procedure may be enforced by any court of competent 
jurisdiction upon the filing of this Agreement together with the Award.  Notice of the 
filing of such enforcement proceedings shall be given to the Union, GDC, and/or the 
Contractor(s) involved. In any court proceeding to obtain a temporary or preliminary 
order enforcing the arbitrator's Award as issued under this expedited procedure, the 
involved Union and Contractor waive their right to a hearing and agree that such 
proceedings may be ex parte, provided notice is given to opposing counsel.  Such 
agreement does not waive any party's right to participate in a hearing for a final court 
order of enforcement or in any contempt proceeding. 
F. Any rights created by statut e or law governing arbitration proceedings which are  
inconsistent with  the procedure set forth  in this Article, or  which interfere with  
compliance thereto, are hereby waived by the Contractors and Unions to whom they 
accrue. 
G. The fees and expenses of the Arbitrator shall be equally divided between the involved 
Contractor and Union. Each party is otherwise responsible for their own legal costs and 
expenses. 
H. GDC is a party in interest in all proceedings arising under this Article and shall be sent 
contemporaneous copies of all notifications required by this Article, and, at its option, 
may participate as a full  party in any proceeding initiated under this Article. 
Notwithstanding this provision, no remedy may be issued against GDC or the Prime 
Contractor. 
I. If the Arbitrator determines that a violation has occurred, the respondent Union(s) 
shall, within four (4) hours of receipt of the award, direct all the employees  they 
represent on the Project to immediately cease the violation. 
SECTION 5. ARBITRATION OF DISCHARGES FOR VIOLATION 
Procedures contained in Article 9 shall not be applicable to any alleged violation of this Article, with 
the single exception that an employee discharged for violation of Section 1, above, 
may have recourse to the procedures of Article 9 to determine only if the employee did, in fact, 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
15 
 
violate the provisions of Section 1 of this Article; but not for the purpose of modifying the discipline 
imposed where a violation is found to have occurred. 
ARTICLE 8. - LOCAL ADMINISTRATIVE COMMITTEE (LAC) 
SECTION 1. MEETINGS 
The Local Administrative Committee (LAC) will meet on a regular basis to 1) i mplement and 
oversee the Agreement procedures and initiatives; 2) monitor the effectiveness of the Agreement; 
and 3) identify opportunities to improve efficiency and work execution. 
SECTION 2. COMPOSITION 
The LAC will be co -chaired by the President of the Hudson County Building and Construction 
Trades Council or his designee, and designated official of the GDC or the Prime Contractor. It will 
be comprised of representatives of the local unions signatory to this Agreement and representatives 
of the GDC, the Prime Contractor, and other Contractors on the Project. 
ARTICLE 9 - GRIEVANCE & ARBITRATION PROCEDURE 
 
SECTION 1. PROCEDURE FOR RESOLUTION OF GRIEVANCES 
This Agreement is intended to provide close cooperation between management and labor.  Each of 
the Unions will assign a representative to this Project for such purpose. The Contractors, Unions, 
and the employees, collectively and individually, realize the importance to all parties to maintain 
continuous and uninterrupted performance of the work of the Project, and agree to resolve disputes 
in accordance with the grievance-arbitration provision set forth in this Article. Any question, dispute 
or claim arising out of, or involving the interpretation or application of this Agreement (other than 
jurisdictional disputes or alleged violations of Article 7, Section 1 , or trust fund disputes,  Article 
11, Section 2)  shall be considered a grievance and shall be resolved pursuant to the exclusive 
procedure of the steps described below; provided, in all cases, that the question, dispute or claim 
arose during the term of this Agreement. 
Step 1: 
 
A. When any employee covered by this Agreement feels aggrieved by a claimed violation 
of this Agreement, the employee shall, through the local union business representative 
or job steward give notice of the claimed violation to the worksite representative of the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
16 
 
involved Contractor.  To be timely, such notice of the grievance must be given within 
7 calendar days after the act, occurrence, or event giving rise to the grievance, or after 
the act, occurrence or event became known or should have become known to the Union.  
The business representative of the local union or the job steward and the worksite 
representative of the involved Contractor shall meet and endeavor to adjust the matter 
within 7 calendar days after timely notice has been given.  If they fail to resolve the 
matter within the prescribed period, the grieving party , may, within 7 calendar days  
thereafter, pursue Step 2 of they grievance procedure by serving the involved 
Contractor and the Prime Contractor with written copies of the grievance setting forth 
a description of the claimed violation , the date on which the grievance occurred, the 
provisions of the Agreement alleged to have been violated.   Grievances and disputes 
settled at Step 1 are non-precedential except as to the specific Local Union, employee 
and Contractor directly involved, unless the settlement is accepted in writing, by the 
Prime Contractor, as creating a precedent. 
 
B. Should any signatory to this Agreement have a dispute (excepting jurisdictional 
disputes or alleged violations of Article 7, Section 1) with any other signatory to this 
Agreement and, if after conferring, a settlement is not reached within 7 calendar  days, 
the dispute shall be reduced to writing and proceed to Step 2 in the same manner as 
outlined in subparagraph (a) for the adjustment of employee grievances. 
Step 2: 
A. The Business Manager or designee of the involved Local Union, together with 
representatives of the BTC, the involved Contractor, and the Prime Contractor shall 
meet in Step 2 within 5 calendar days of the written grievance to arrive at a satisfactory 
settlement. 
Step 3: 
A. If the grievance shall have been submitted but not resolved in Step 2, any of the 
participating Step 2 entities may, within 14 calendar days after the initial Step 2 
meeting, submit the grievance in writing (copies to other participants) to  the next 
available of J.J. Pierson,  Richard Adelman, Scott Buchheit, and Gary Kendellen who 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
17 
 
shall serve as arbitrator under this expedited procedure.  In the event any one of the 
named arbitrators withdraws himself, retires or passes away, the Owner and the BTC 
or their de signees shall promptly meet and negotiate over a mutually agreeable 
arbitrator or arbitrators to replace him or them.  The Labor Arbitration Rules of the 
American Arbitration Association shall govern the conduct of the arbitration hearing, 
at which all Step 2 participants shall be parties. Hearings shall be held at the jobsite or 
at the Newark office of the New Jersey State Board of Mediation, as directed by the 
Arbitrator; provided, upon mutual agreement of the parties, the hearing may be 
conducted virtually via Zoom, Microsoft Teams, or similar technological platforms. 
The decision of the Arbitrator shall be final and binding on the involved Contractor, Local Union 
and employees and the fees and expenses of such arbitration shall be borne equally by the involved 
Contractor and Local Union. Each party is otherwise respons ible for their own legal costs and 
expenses. 
B. Failure of the grieving party to adhere to the time limits set forth in this Article shall 
render the grievance null and void. These time limits may be extended only by written 
consent of the Prime Contractor, involved Contractor and involved Local Union at the 
particular step where the extension is agreed upon.  
C. The Arbitrator’s authority shall be limited to the interpretation and application of the 
terms of this Agreement.  The Arbitrator’s jurisdiction is limited to the scope of this 
Agreement and does not extend to any other Project Labor Agreement(s) for the 
Hudson Tunnel Project, or project scopes. An Arbitration Award rendered under this 
Agreement shall not have precedential effect on any other project. The Arbitrator shall 
have authority to make decisions only on the issues presented to him and shall not have 
the authority to change, add to, delete or modify any provision of this Agreement. 
SECTION 2. LIMITATION AS TO RETROACTIVITY 
No arbitration decision or award may provide retroactivity of any kind exceeding 30 calendar days 
prior to the date of service of the written grievance on the Prime Contractor, the involved Contractor, 
or Local Union as applicable. 
SECTION 3. PARTICIPATION BY GDC, PRIME CONTRACTOR AND BTC 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
18 
 
The GDC, the Prime Contractor and the President of the BTC shall be notified by the involved 
Contractor of all actions at Steps 2 and 3 and, at their  election, may participate in full in all 
proceedings at these Steps, including Step 3 arbitration.  Notwithstanding this provision, the Owner 
shall not be liable for any violations of this Agreement and the Prime Contractor shall not be liable 
for any violations of this Agreement by any other Contractor.  
ARTICLE 10 - JURISDICTIONAL DISPUTES 
SECTION 1. NO DISRUPTIONS 
There will be no Prohibited Activity or other disruptive activity of any kind arising out of any 
jurisdictional dispute.  Pending the resolution of the dispute, the work shall continue uninterrupted 
and as assigned by the Contractor. No jurisdictional dispute shall excuse a violation of Article 7. 
SECTION 2. ASSIGNMENT 
A. There shall be a mandatory pre -job markup / assignment meeting prior to the 
commencement of any work. Attending such meeting shall be designated 
representatives of the Union signatories to this Agreement, the  Prime Contractor, 
and the involved Contractors.  These meetings shall be coordinated by the LAC, 
pursuant to Article 8.  Best efforts will be made to schedule the pre-job meeting in 
a timely manner after Notice to Proceed is issued but not later than 30 days prior to 
the start of the Project. 
B. All Project construction work assignments shall be made by the Contractor ,   
according to criteria set forth in Section 3, Subsection D 1-3 
C. When a Contractor has made an assignment of work, he shall continue the 
assignment without alteration unless otherwise directed by an arbitrator or there is 
agreement between the National or International Unions involved.  Claims of a 
change of original assignment shall be processed in accordance with Article I of the 
Procedural Rules of the Plan for the Settlement of Jurisdictional Disputes in the 
Construction Industry ("the Plan"). 
D. In the event that a Union involved in the change of original assignment dispute is 
an affiliate of a National or International Union that is not affiliated with the 
Building and Construction Trades Department and does not wish to process a case 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
19 
 
through the Plan, the parties shall mutually select one of the following Arbitrators: 
Arbitrator J.J. Pierson, Arbitrator Paul Greenberg or Arbitrator Richard K. Hanft  
and submit the dispute directly to the Arbitrator. In the event any one of the named 
arbitrators withdraws himself, retires or passes away, the Owner and the BTC or 
their de signees shall promptly meet and negotiate over a mutually agreeable 
arbitrator or arbitrators to replace him or them.  The selected Arbitrator shall 
determine whether the case requires a hearing or may be decided upon written 
submissions. In rendering his determination on whether there has been a change of 
original assignment, the Arbitrator shall be governed by the following: 
1. The contractor who has the responsibility for the performance and installation 
shall make a specific assignment of the work which is included in his contract 
to a particular union(s). For instance, if contractor A subcontracts certain work 
to contractor B, then contractor B shall have the responsibility for making the 
specific assignments for the work included in his contract.  If contractor B, in 
turn, shall subcontract certain work to contractor C, then contractor C shall have 
the responsibility for making the specific assignment for the work included in 
his contract. After work has been  so assigned, such assignment will be 
maintained even though the assigning contractor is replaced and such work is 
subcontracted to another contractor. It is a violation of the Agreement for the 
contractor to hold up disputed work or shut down a project because of a 
jurisdictional dispute. 
2. When a contractor has made an assignment of work, he shall continue the 
assignment without alteration unless otherwise directed by an arbitrator or there 
is agreement between the National or International Unions involved.  
3. Unloading and/or handling of materials to stockpile or storage by a trade for the 
convenience of the responsible contractor when his employees are not on the 
job site, or in an emergency situation, shall not be considered to be an original 
assignment to that trade. 
4. Starting of work by a trade without a specific assignment by an authorized 
representative of the responsible contractor shall not be considered an original 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
20 
 
assignment to that trade, provided that the responsible contractor, or his 
authorized representative, promptly, and, in any event, within eight working 
hours following the start of work, takes positive steps to stop further 
unauthorized performance of the work by that trade. 
SECTION 3. PROCEDURE FOR SETTLEMENT OF DISPUTES 
A. Any Union having a jurisdictional dispute with respect to Project work assigned to 
another Union will submit through its International the dispute in writing to the 
Administrator of the Plan within 72 hours and send a copy of the letter to the other 
Union involved, the Contractor involved, the Prime Contractor, the BTC, and the 
district or area councils of the unions involved. Upon receipt of a dispute letter from 
any Union, the Administrator will invoke the procedures set forth in the Plan to resolve 
the jurisdictional dispute. The jurisdictional dispute letter shall contain the information 
described in Article IV of the Procedural Rules of the Plan. 
B. Within five calendar days of receipt of the dispute letter, there shall be a meeting of 
the Prime Contractor, the Contractor involved, the  Local Unions involved and 
designees of the BTC and the district or area councils of the Local Unions involved 
for the purpose of resolving the jurisdictional dispute. 
C. In order to expedite the resolution of jurisdictional disputes, the parties have agreed in 
advance to mutually select one of the following designated Arbitrators: Arbitrator J.  
J. Pierson, Arbitrator Paul Greenberg or Arbitrator Richard K. Hanft  to hear all 
unresolved jurisdictional disputes arising under this Agreement. All other rules and 
procedures of the Plan shall be followed. If none of the three Arbitrators is available 
to hear the dispute within the time limits of the Plan, the Plan's arbitrator selection 
process shall be utilized to select another arbitrator. In the event any one of the named 
arbitrators withdraws himself, retires or passes away, the Owner and the BTC or their 
designees shall promptly meet and negotiate over a mutually agreeable arbitrator or 
arbitrators to replace him or them. 
D. In the event that a Union involved in the dispute is an affiliate of a National or 
International Union that is not affiliated with the Building and Construction Trades 
Department and does not wish to process a case through the Plan as described in 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
21 
 
paragraphs A -C above, the parties to the dispute shall mutually select one of the 
following Arbitrators: Arbitrator J. J. Pierson, Arbitrator Paul Greenberg or Arbitrator 
Richard K. Hanft  to hear the dispute and shall submit the dispute directly to the 
selected arbitrator. The time limits for submission and processing disputes shall be the 
same as provided elsewhere in this Section. The selected Arbitrator shall schedule the 
hearing within seven business days from the date of submission. If he cannot hear the 
case within the required timeframe, one of the other Arbitrators will be selected to 
hear the case unless all parties to the dispute agree to waive the seven day time limit.  
In the event any one of the named arbitrators withdraws himself, retires or passes 
away, the Owner and the BTC or their de signees shall promptly meet and negotiate 
over a mutually agreeable arbitrator or arbitrators to replace him or them. In rendering 
his decision, the Arbitrator shall determine: 
1. First whether a previous agreement of record or applicable agreement, including a 
disclaimer agreement, between the National and International Unions to the dispute 
governs; 
2. Only if the Arbitrator finds that the dispute is not covered by an appropriate or 
applicable agreement of record or agreement between the crafts to the dispute, he 
shall then consider the established trade practice in the industry and prevailing 
practice in the locality. Where there is a previous decision of record governing the 
case, the Arbitrator shall give equal weight to such decision of record, unless the 
prevailing practice in the locality in the past ten years favors one craft. In that case, 
the Arb itrator shall base his decision on the prevailing practice in the locality. 
Except, that if the Arbitrator finds that a craft has improperly obtained the 
prevailing practice in the locality through raiding, the undercutting of wages or by 
the use of vertical agreements, the Arbitrator shall rely on the decision of record 
and established trade practice in the industry rather than the prevailing practice in 
the locality. 
3. Only if none of the above criteria is found to exist, the Arbitrator shall then consider 
that because efficiency, cost or continuity and good management are essential 
to the wellbeing of the industry, the interests of the consumer or the past practices 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
22 
 
of the employer shall not be ignored. 
4. The Arbitrator shall set forth the basis for his decision and shall explain his findings 
regarding the applicability of the above criteria. If lower -ranked criteria are relied 
upon, the Arbitrator shall explain why the higher -ranked criteria were not deemed 
applicable. The Arbitrator's decision shall only apply to the job in dispute. 
5. Each party to the arbitration shall bear its own expense for the arbitration and agrees 
that the fees and  expenses of the Arbitrator shall be  borne by the losing party  or 
parties as determined by the Arbitrator. 
6. The Arbitrator shall render a short -form decision within five days of the hearing 
based upon the evidence submitted at the hearing, with a written decision to follow 
within 30 days of the close of hearing. 
7. This Jurisdictional Dispute Resolution Procedure will only apply to work 
performed by Local Unions that represent workers employed on the Project. 
8. Any Local Union involved in a jurisdictional dispute on this Project shall continue 
working in accordance with Section 2 above and without disruption of any kind. 
SECTION 4. AWARD 
Any award rendered pursuant to this Article and the Plan shall be final and binding on the disputing 
Local Unions and the involved Contractor on this Project only and may be enforced in accordance 
with the provisions of Article VII of the Plan. Any award rendered pursuant to the alternate 
procedures of this Article shall be final and binding on the disputing Local Unions and the involved 
Contractor on this Project only, and may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction. Such 
award or resolution shall not establish a precedent on any other construction work not covered by 
this Agreement. In all disputes under this Article, the Prime Contractor and the involved Contractors 
shall be considered parties in interest. 
SECTION 5. LIMITATIONS 
The Arbitrator shall have no authority to assign work to a double crew, that is, to more employees 
than the minimum required by the Contractor to perform the work involved; nor to assign work to 
employees who are not qualified to perform the work involved; nor to assign work being 
performed by non-union employees to union employees. This does not prohibit the establishment, 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
23 
 
with the agreement of the involved Contractor, of composite crews where more than 1 employee is 
needed for the job. The Arbitrator shall also have no authority to award back pay or other damages.  
The aforesaid determinations shall decide only to whom the disputed work belongs. 
SECTION 6. NO INTERFERENCE WITH WORK 
A. There shall be no interference or interruption of any kind with the work of the Project while 
any jurisdictional dispute is being resolved. The work shall proceed as assigned by the 
Contractor until finally resolved under the applicable procedure of this Article. The award 
shall be confirmed in writing to the involved parties. There shall be no Prohibited Activity 
in protest of any such award. Any claims of a violation of this section shall be submitted 
and processed in accordance with the impediment to job progress provisions of the Plan. 
B. In the event a Union alleged to have engaged in an impediment to job progress is an affiliate 
of a National or International Union that is not affiliated with the Building and Construction 
Trades Department and does not wish to have the impediment to job progress charge 
processed through the Plan, the parties to the dispute shall mutually select one of the three 
Arbitrators designated in this Article to hear the dispute. The selected Arbitrator shall 
schedule the hearing within two business days from the da te of submission. If he cannot 
hear the case within the required timeframe, one of the other Arbitrators shall be selected 
by the parties to hear the case unless all parties to the dispute agree to waive the two day 
time limit. The sole issue at the hearing shall be whether or not a violation of this Section 
has in fact occurred, and the Arbitrator shall have no authority to consider any matter in 
justification, explanation or mitigation of such violation or to award damages. The 
Arbitrator's decision shall be issued in writing within 3 hours after the close of the hearing, 
and may be issued without an opinion. If any party desires an opinion, one shall be issued 
within 15 days, but its issuance shall not delay compliance with, or enforcement of, the 
decision. The Arbitrator may order cessation of the violation of this Section and other 
appropriate relief, and such decision shall be  served on all parties by facsimile upon 
issuance. Each party to the arbitration shall bear  its own expense for the arbitration a nd 
agrees that the fees and expenses of the Arbitrator  shall be borne by the losing party or 
parties as determined by the Arbitrator. 
ARTICLE 11 - WAGES AND BENEFITS 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
24 
 
 
SECTION 1. CLASSIFICATION AND BASE HOURLY RATE 
All employees covered by this Agreement shall be classified in accordance with the work performed 
and paid the base hourly wage rates for those classifications as specified in the attached Schedule 
A, as amended and/or modified by this Agreement.  Recognizing, however, that special conditions 
may exist or occur on the Project, the parties, by mutual agreement may establish rates and/or hours 
for one or more classifications, which may differ from a Schedule A  Agreement. Parties to such 
agreements shall be GDC , Prime Contractor, the Contractor involved, the involved Local Unions 
and the BTC.  
SECTION 2. EMPLOYEE BENEFIT FUNDS 
 
A. The Contractors agree to pay contributions on behalf of all employees covered by this 
Agreement to the established employee benefit funds in the amounts designated in the 
appropriate Schedule A  Agreement. Bona fide jointly trusted fringe benefit plans 
established or negotiated through collective bargaining during the life of this Agreement 
may be added.  However, if a defined benefit pension fund covered by the terms and 
conditions of this Agreement has not adopted the building and construction industry 
exemption authorized by subsection (b) of Section 4203 of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974, the Contractor shall not be obligated to hire employees for 
whom contributions are required to be made to  that pension  fund for this Project.  
B. The Contractor agrees to be bound by the written terms of the legally established Trust 
Agreements specifying the detailed basis on which contributions  are to be paid into, and 
benefits paid out of, such Trust Funds but only with regard to work done on this Project 
and only for those employees on whose behalf this Agreement requires such contributions. 
C. In the event a dispute shall arise between a Contractor, and any Local Union and, or fringe 
benefit trust fund in which a Local Union participates as to the obligation and/or payment 
of fringe benefits provided for under the appropriate collective bargaini ng Schedule A 
Agreement, upon proper notice to the Contractor by the appropriate Local Union, an 
amount sufficient to satisfy the amount claimed shall be withheld by Owner from the 
Contractor’s regularly scheduled periodic or final payment as the case may be. The amount 
owed shall be held in escrow in the attorney trust account of the counsel to the applicable 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
25 
 
fringe benefit fund and shall be paid within 30 days unless an arbitrator or a court of 
competent jurisdiction directs otherwise. Disputes regarding trust funds shall be resolved 
under the applicable Schedule A Agreement. 
 
ARTICLE 12 - HOURS OF WORK, PREMIUM PAYMENTS, SHIFTS AND HOLIDAYS 
 
SECTION 1. WORK WEEK AND WORK DAY 
A. The standard work week shall consist of one of the following schedules: 
1) Five-Day Work Week: Monday-Friday, 5 days, 8 hours plus 1/2 hour unpaid 
lunch period each day.  
2)  Four-Day Work Week:  Four-Day Work Week: “4/10s” worked during 
Monday to Friday, ten (10) hours per day at straight time rates, plus one half (½) hour 
unpaid lunch period each day so long as this is consistent with requirements of the 
Project final environmental impact statement, permit requirements and/or applicable 
law. 
3) Saturday and Sunday Work. The Contractor may schedule a Saturday or 
Sunday workday pursuant to the applicable Schedule A Agreement  so long as this is 
consistent with requirements of the Project final environment al impact statement, 
permit requirements and/or applicable law. 
B. Make-Up Day. When conditions beyond the control of a Contractor, such as severe 
weather, power failure, fire, or natural disaster, prevent the performance of Project work 
on a regularly scheduled work day, the Contractor may, on a craft-by-craft basis, and except 
where prohibited by statute, schedule another weekday or Saturday during that calendar 
week in which a workday was lost  and the pay rate shall be as provided in  the applicable 
Schedule A Agreement. 
C. The Day Shift shall commence between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. and shall end 
between the hours of 2:30 p.m. and 5:30 p.m. for an eight (8) hour day and up to 7:30 p.m. 
for a ten (10) hour day. The Second/Evening shift shall commence between the hours of 2 
p.m. and 8 p.m., unless different times are necessitated by the Owner’s phasing plans on 
specific projects.   The Night Shift shall commence between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
26 
 
2:00 a.m., unless different times are necessitated by the Owner’s phasing plans on specific 
projects. Shift differentials shall be payable pursuant to the applicable Schedule A  
Agreement.   Starting and quitting times shall occur at the predetermined staging area 
agreed upon by the contractor and the union at a pre job conference  in accordance with 
area practice. 
 
D. Notice - Contractors shall provide not less than 5 days ’ prior notice to the Local Union 
involved as to the work week and work hours schedules to be worked or such lesser notice 
as may be mutually agreed upon. 
SECTION 2. OVERTIME 
Overtime pay for hours outside of the standard work week and work day, described in paragraph A 
above, shall be paid in accordance with the applicable Schedule A Agreement.  There will be no  
restriction upon the Contractor's scheduling of overtime or the non- discriminatory designation of 
employees who shall be worked. There shall be no pyramiding of overtime pay under any 
circumstances. The Contractor shall have the right to schedule work so as to minimize overtime. 
SECTION 3. SHIFTS 
A. Flexible Schedules - Scheduling of shift work shall remain flexible in order to meet 
Project schedules and existing Project conditions including the minimization of interference with 
traffic. It is not necessary to work a day shift in order to schedule a second shift.  Shifts must be 
worked a minimum of five consecutive work days, must have prior approval of the Prime Contractor 
and must be scheduled with not less than five work days’ notice to the Local Union. 
B. Second/Third Shift - The second shift (starting between 2 p.m. and 8p.m.) and third 
shifts shall consist of 8 hours work (or 10 hours of work) for an equal number of hours of pay which 
shall be payable  pursuant to the applicable Schedule A  and exclusive of a 1/2 hour unpaid lunch 
period. 
C. Flexible Starting Times – Shift starting times will be adjusted by the Contractor as 
necessary to fulfill Project requirements subject to the notice requirements of Paragraph A. 
D. It is agreed that when P roject circumstances require a deviation f rom the above 
shifts, the involved unions, contractors and the Prime Contractor shall adjust the starting times of 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
27 
 
the above shifts or establish shifts which meet the Project requirements. It is agreed that neither party 
will unreasonably withhold their agreement. 
SECTION 4. HOLIDAYS 
A. Schedule - There shall be 8 recognized holidays on the Project: 
New Year’s Day Labor Day 
Presidents Day   Veterans Day 
Memorial Day   Thanksgiving Day 
Fourth of July   Christmas Day 
* Presidential Election Day shall be observed as a holiday in a general election year. Work shall be 
scheduled on Good Friday pursuant to the craft’s Schedule A  Agreement. Columbus Day and the 
Friday after Thanksgiving shall be observed as a holiday for Elevator Constructors Local 1 only. 
All said holidays shall be observed on the dates designated by New Jersey State Law. In the absence 
of such designations, they shall be observed on the calendar date except those holidays which occur 
on Sunday shall be observed on the following Monday. Holidays falling on Saturday are to be 
observed on the preceding Friday. 
B. Payment - Regular holiday pay, if any, and/or premium pay for work performed on 
such a recognized holiday shall be in accordance with the applicable Schedule A Agreement. 
C. Exclusivity - No holidays other than those listed in Section 4- A above shall be 
recognized nor observed. 
SECTION 5. REPORTING PAY 
A. Employees who report to the work location pursuant to regular schedule and who are 
not provided with work or whose work is terminated early by a Contractor, for whatever 
reason, shall receive minimum reporting pay in accordance with the applicable 
Schedule A Agreement, if any, not to exceed eight hours at the straight time rate. 
B. When an employee, who has completed their scheduled shift and left the Project site, 
is "called back" to perform special work of a casual, incidental or irregular nature, the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
28 
 
employee shall receive pay for actual hours worked with a minimum guarantee, as may 
be required by the applicable Schedule A Agreement, if any. 
C. When an employee leaves the job or work location of their own volition or is discharged 
for cause or is not working as a result of the Contractor's invocation of Section 7 below, 
they shall be paid only for the actual time worked. 
D. Except as specifically set forth in this Article there shall be no premiums, bonuses, 
hazardous duty, high time or other special payments of any kind. 
E. No craft is guaranteed a 40 -hour workweek on this Project. There shall be no pay for 
time not actually worked  except as specifically set forth in this Agreement or  except 
where specifically provided in an applicable Schedule A Agreement.  
 
SECTION 6. PAYMENT OF WAGES 
A. Payday - Payment shall be made by  weekly check drawn on a New Jersey bank with 
branches located within commuting distance of the job site.  Paycheck stubs shall contain 
the name and business address of the Contractor, together with an itemization of 
deductions from gross wages. 
B. Termination-Employees who are laid -off or discharged for cause shall be paid in full for 
that which is due them at the time of termination.  The Contractors shall also provide the 
employee with a written statement setting forth the date of lay off or discharge. 
SECTION 7. EMERGENCY WORK SUSPENSION 
A Contractor or  Prime Contractor may, if considered necessary for the protection of life and /or 
safety of employees or others, suspend all or a portion of Project Work. In such instances, employees 
will be paid for actual time worked; provided, however, that when a Contr actor request s that 
employees remain at the job site available for work, employees will be paid for "stand -by" time at 
their hourly rate of pay. 
SECTION 8. INJURY/DISABILITY 
An employee who, after commencing work, suffers a work- related injury or disability while 
performing work duties, shall receive no less than eight hours wages for that day.  Further, the 
employee shall be rehired at such time as able to return to duties provided there is still work available 
on the Project for which the employee is qualified and able to perform. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
29 
 
SECTION 9. TIME KEEPING 
A Contractor may utilize electronic or other systems to check employees in and out. Each employee 
must check in and out. The Contractor will provide adequate facilities for checking in and out in an 
expeditious manner. 
SECTION 10. MEAL PERIOD 
A Contractor shall schedule an unpaid period of not more than 1/2 hour duration at the work location 
between the 3rd and 5th hour of the scheduled shift. A Contractor may, for efficiency of operation, 
establish a schedule which coordinates the meal periods of two or more crafts.  If an employee is 
required to work through the meal period, the employee shall be compensated in a manner 
established in the applicable Schedule A Agreement. 
SECTION 11. BREAK PERIODS 
There will be no rest periods, organized coffee breaks or other non-working time established during 
working hours.  Individual coffee containers will be permitted at the  employee's work location. 
Local area practice will prevail for coffee breaks that are not organized. 
ARTICLE 13 - APPRENTICES 
SECTION 1. RATIOS 
Recognizing the need to maintain continuing supportive programs designed to develop adequate 
numbers of competent workers in the construction industry and to provide craft entry opportunities 
for workers who are required to be retained by the DBE pursuant to applicable law as existing now 
or in the future, Contractors will employ apprentices in their respective crafts to perform such work 
as is within their capabilities and which is customarily performed by the craft in which they are 
indentured. Contractors may utilize apprentices and such other appropria te classifications as are 
contained in the applicable Schedule A in a ratio not to exceed the   maximum permissible ratio as 
permitted by applicable New Jersey law and as prescribed in the applicable prevailing wage 
determination for Hudson County, New Jer sey. Apprentices and such other classifications as are 
appropriate shall be employed in a manner consistent with the provisions of the appropriate 
collective bargaining agreement listed in Schedule A. 
SECTION 2. HELMETS TO HARDHATS 
The Employers and the Unions recognize a desire to facilitate the entry into the building and 
construction trades of veterans who are interested in careers in the building and construction 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
30 
 
industry. The Employers and Unions agree to utilize the services of the Center for Military 
recruitment, Assessment and Veterans Employment (hereinafter “Center”) and the Center’s 
“Helmets to Hardhats” program to serve as a resource for preliminary orientation, assessment of 
construction aptitude, referral to apprenticeship programs or hiring halls, counseling and mentoring, 
support network, employment opportunities and other needs as identified by the parties. 
The Unions and Contractors agree to coordinate with the Center to create and maintain an integrated 
database of veterans interested in working on the Project and of apprenticeship and employment 
opportunities for the Project.  To the extent permitted by law, the Unions will give credit to such 
veterans for bona fide, provable past experience. 
ARTICLE 14 - SAFETY PROTECTION OF PERSON AND PROPERTY 
 
SECTION 1. SAFETY REQUIREMENTS 
Each Contractor will ensure that applicable OSHA requirements and other requirements set forth in 
the contract documents are at all times maintained on the Project and the employees and Unions 
agree to cooperate fully with these efforts. Employees must perform their work at all times in a safe 
manner and protect themselves and the property of the Contractor and the Owner from injury or 
harm. Failure to do so will be grounds for discipline, including discharge. 
SECTION 2. CONTRACTOR RULES 
Employees covered by this Agreement shall at all times be bound by the reasonable safety, security, 
and visitor rules as established by the Contractors , the Prime Contractor and the Owner for this 
Project. Such rules will be published and posted in conspicuous places throughout the Project. 
SECTION 3. INSPECTIONS 
The Contractors , the Prime Contractor and the Owner retain the right to inspect incoming 
shipments of equipment, apparatus, machinery and construction materials of every kind. 
ARTICLE 15 - NO DISCRIMINATION 
SECTION 1. COOPERATIVE EFFORTS 
The Contractors and Unions agree that they will not discriminate against any employee or applicant 
for employment because of race, color, religion, sex, national origin or age in any manner prohibited 
by law or regulation. It is recognized that special procedures may be established by Contractors and 
Local Unions and the New Jersey State Department of Labor for the training and employment of 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
31 
 
persons who have not previously qualified to be employed on construction projects of the type 
covered by this Agreement. The parties to this Agreement will assist in such programs and agree to 
use their best efforts  to ensure that federal law s, regulations, directives and guidance, as existing 
now or in the future and applicable to persons who are required to be retained by the DBE, are met 
on this Project. 
SECTION 2. LANGUAGE OF AGREEMENT 
The use of the masculine or feminine gender in this Agreement shall be construed as including all 
genders. 
ARTICLE 16 - GENERAL TERMS 
SECTION 1. PROJECT RULES 
GDC and the Contractors shall establish such reasonable Project rules as are appropriate for the 
good order of the Project, provided they do not violate the terms of this Agreement. These rules will 
be explained at the pre-job conference and posted at the Project site and may be amended thereafter 
as necessary. Failure of an employee to observe these rules and regulations shall be grounds for 
discipline, including discharge.  The fact that no order was posted prohibiting a certain type of 
misconduct shall not be a defense to an employee disciplined or discharged for such misconduct 
when the action taken is for cause. 
SECTION 2. TOOLS OF THE TRADES 
The welding/cutting torch and chain fall are tools of the trade having jurisdiction over the work 
performed. Employees using these tools shall perform any of the work of the trade. There shall be 
no restrictions on the emergency use of any tools or equipment by any qualified employee, or on the 
use of any tools or equipment for the performance of work within the employee's jurisdiction. 
SECTION 3. SUPERVISION 
Employees shall work under the supervision of the craft foreperson or general foreperson. 
SECTION 4. TRAVEL ALLOWANCES 
There shall be no payments for travel expenses, travel time, subsistence allowance or other such 
reimbursements or special pay except as expressly set forth in this Agreement and in Schedule A.  
SECTION 5. FULL WORK DAY 
Employees shall be at their staging area at the starting time  established by the Contractor and shall 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
32 
 
be returned to their staging area by quitting time after performing their assigned functions under the 
supervision of the Contractor. The locations of the staging areas are to be established at a pre- job 
conference between contractor and the Local Union.  The signatories reaffirm their policy of a fair 
day's work for a fair day's wage. 
SECTION 6. COOPERATION 
The Owner, the Prime Contractor and the Unions will cooperate in seeking any U.S. Department of 
Labor and/or NJ Department of Labor and Workforce Development approvals that may be required 
for implementation of any terms of this Agreement. 
ARTICLE 17 - SAVINGS AND SEPARABILITY 
SECTION 1. THIS AGREEMENT 
In the event that the application of any provision of this Agreement is enjoined, on either an 
interlocutory or permanent basis, or otherwise found in violation of law, the provision involved shall 
be rendered, temporarily or permanently, null and void but  the remainder of the Agreement shall 
remain in full force and effect.  In such event, the Agreement shall remain in effect for contracts  
already bid and awarded or in construction where the Contractor voluntarily accepts the Agreement. 
The parties to this Agreement will enter into negotiations for a substitute provision in conformity 
with the law and the intent of the parties for contracts to be let in the future. 
SECTION 2. THE BID SPECIFICATIONS 
In the event that GDC’s or the Prime Contractor's bid specifications, or other action, requiring that 
a successful bidder become signatory to this Agreement is enjoined, on either an interlocutory or 
permanent basis, or otherwise found in violation of law , such requirement shall be rendered, 
temporarily or permanently, null and void but the Agreement shall remain in full force and effect to 
the extent allowed by law. In such event, the Agreement shall remain in effect for contracts already 
bid and awarded or in construction where the Contractor voluntarily accepts the Agreement.  The 
parties will enter into negotiations as to modifications to the Agreement to reflect the court action 
taken and the intent of the parties for contracts to be let in the future. 
SECTION 3. NON-LIABILITY 
In the event of an occurrence referenced in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article, neither the Owner, 
the Prime Contractor, nor any Contractor, or any signatory Union shall be liable, directly or 
indirectly, for any action taken, or not taken, to comply with any court order, injunction or 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
33 
 
determination. Project bid specifications will be issued in conformance with court orders in effect 
and no retroactive payments or other action will be required if the original court determination is 
ultimately reversed. 
SECTION 4. NON-WAIVER 
Nothing in this Article shall be construed as waiving the prohibitions of Article 7 as to signatory 
Contractors and signatory Unions. 
ARTICLE 18 - FUTURE CHANGES IN SCHEDULE A AGREEMENTS  
 
SECTION 1. CHANGES TO AREA CONTRACTS 
A. Schedule A Agreements shall continue in full force and effect until the Contractor 
and/or Union parties to Schedule A Agreements notify the Prime Contractor in writing of the 
mutually agreed upon changes in provisions of such Agreements which are applicable to the Project, 
and their effective dates. 
B. It is agreed that any provisions negotiated into future Schedule A Agreements will 
not apply to work on this Project if such provisions are less favorable to this Project than those 
uniformly required of contractors for construction work normally covered by those agreements; nor 
shall any provisions in future Schedule A Agreements be recognized or applied on this Project if it 
may be construed to apply exclusively, or predominantly, to work covered by this Project Labor 
Agreement. 
C. Any disagreement between signatories to this Project Labor Agreement over the 
incorporation into Schedule A  Agreement of provisions agreed upon in the renegotiations of Area  
Collective Bargaining Agreements shall be resolved in accordance with the procedure set forth in 
Article 9 of this Project Labor Agreement.  
 
SECTION 2. LABOR DISPUTES DURING AREA CONTRACT NEGOTIATIONS 
The Unions agree that there will be no Prohibited Activity or other disruptive activity or other 
violations of Article 7 affecting the Project by any Local Union involved in the renegotiations of 
Area Local Collective Bargaining Agreements nor shall there by any lock -out on the Project 
affecting a Local Union during the course of such renegotiations.  The Contractor agrees that all 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
34 
 
payments due under any renegotiated area Local Collective Bargaining Agreement shall be made 
retroactive to the effective date thereof. 
ARTICLE 19- DRUGS AND ALCOHOL 
A Drug and Alcohol Policy, which includes pre -assignment, post-accident, reasonable suspicion, 
and return to duty testing is attached to this Agreement as Exhibit  3 and applies to this Project. All 
signatory Parties to this Agreement shall fully comply with the Project Drug and Alcohol Policy. 
ARTICLE 20-MISCELLANEOUS 
SECTION 1. MODIFICATIONS 
Any modification, amendment, or supplement to this Agreement is not valid or enforceable unless 
it is in writing and signed by an authorized representative of the Owner , the Prime Contractor, the 
BTC, and the Unions. 
SECTION 2. NOTIFICATIONS 
Any notice, request, demand, instruction, or other document to be given or served will be in writing 
and will be delivered personally with a receipt requested thereof or by fax or e -mail, or sent by 
Federal Express to the respective addresses set forth below: 
To the Owner: 
 
Thomas Prendergast, Chief Executive Officer 
Gateway Development Commission 
Email: tprendergast@gatewayprogram.org 
With an email copy to: 
 Maria Anderson, MAnderson@gatewayprogram.org 
 
To the BTC: 
Patrick Kelleher, President 
Hudson County Building and Construction Trades Council  
20 Fairfield Place 
West Caldwell, New Jersey 07006 
Email: pkelleher@plumbers24.org 
 
With an email copy to: Raymond G. Heineman, Esq., rheineman@krollfirm.com 
 
SECTION 3. GOVERNING LAW 
This Agreement will be governed by the laws of the United States and of the State of New Jersey. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
35 
 
 
SECTION 4. COUNTERPARTS AND FASCIMILE TRANSMISSION 
This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and any party hereto may execute 
any such counterpart, each of which when executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an original, 
and all of which counterparts taken together shall constitute but one and the same instrument. Any 
signatures delivered by a party by facsimile transmission shall be deemed an original signature 
hereto. 
SECTION 5. ENTIRE UNDERSTANDING 
The Parties agree that the total results of their bargaining with respect to the subject matter of  this 
Agreement are embodied in the Agreement and neither party is required to render any performance 
not set forth in the wording of this Agreement. 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the parties have caused this Agreement to be executed and effective as 
of the _____ day of August, 2025. 
Gateway Development Commission 
 
Hudson County Building and Construction  
Trades Council AFL-CIO 
By: Thomas Prendergast  
Title: Chief Executive Officer  
By:___________________________________ 
Title:__________________________________ 
 
 
Union Affiliates: 
 
Insulators, Local 32           
 
Boilermakers, Local 28           
 
Bricklayers and Allied Crafts. Local 4          
 
Carpenters, Local 253           
 
Carpenters Floorlayers, Local 251           
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
36 
 
Dockbuilders, Local 1556           
 
Electrical Workers, Local 164           
 
Elevator Workers, Local 1           
 
Heavy Construction Laborers, Local 472          
 
Ironworkers, Local 11           
 
Laborers, Local 3           
 
Millwrights, Local 715           
 
Operating Engineers, Local 825           
 
Operative Plasterers & Cement Masons, Local 29        
 
Painters and Allied Trades, District Council 21        
 
Pipefitters, Local 274           
 
Plumbers, Local 24           
 
Roofers, Local 8           
 
Sheet Metal Workers, Local 25           
 
Sprinkler Fitters, Local 696           
 
Teamsters, Local 560           
 
Tile/Marble/Terrazzo Workers, Local 7          
 
 
 
  
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
37 
 
SCHEDULE A and EXHIBIT 1 
The term “Local Unions” or “Unions” as used in the Project Labor Agreement are  
1. Asbestos Workers, Local 32 
2. Boilermakers, Local 28 
3. Bricklayers and Allied Crafts. Local 4 
4. Carpenters, Local 253 
5. Dockbuilders, Local 1456 
6. Electrical Workers, Local 164 
7. Elevator Workers, Local 1 
8. Heavy Construction Laborers, Local 472 
9. Ironworkers, Local 11 
10. Laborers, Local 3 
11. Millwrights, Local 715 
12. Operating Engineers, Local 825 
13. Operative Plasterers & Cement Masons, Local 29 
14. Painters and Allied Trades, District Council 21 
15. Pipefitters, Local 274 
16. Plumbers, Local 24  
17. Roofers, Local 8 
18. Sheet Metal Workers, Local 25 
19. Sprinkler Fitters, Local 696 
20. Teamsters, Local 560 
21. Tile/Marble/Terrazzo Workers, Local 7 
The Local Unions’ respective agreements (a.k.a. Schedule A Agreements) are collectively attached 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
38 
 
as Exhibit 1.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
39 
 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT 
COVERING THE NEW JERSEY SURFACE 
ALIGNMENT (PACKAGE 3) PROJECT 
IN HUDSON COUNTY, NEW JERSEY  
TELE-DATA ADDENDUM 
 
The parties hereby agree that all Tele-data work and associated electrical work performed on any 
of the sites during construction shall be done by employees represented by the signatory unions. For the 
purpose of this Agreement, Tele-data work shall include, but not limited to, the following: All receiving, 
placement, installation, operation, testing, inspection, maintenance, repair and service of radio, television, 
video, data, voice, sound, emergency call, microwave and visual production and reproduction apparatus, 
equipment and appliances used for domestic, commercial, education and entertainment purposes; all 
installation and erection of equipment, apparatus or appliance, cables  and/or  wire, emergency power 
(batteries) and all directly related work which becomes an integral part of the telecommunication  and/or  
telecommunications related systems repair and service maintenance work of telecommunications systems 
and devices including, but not limited to, Private Branch Exchanges (PBX -PABX), Key equipment -
owned, CCTV, CATV, card access, Systems RS 232 ethernet and/or any local area network system 
associated with computer installation. 
 
________________________  SIGNATORY UNIONS 
    
BY:_____________________  BY:_____________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
40 
 
 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT 
COVERING THE NEW JERSEY SURFACE 
ALIGNMENT (PACKAGE 3) PROJECT 
IN HUDSON COUNTY, NEW JERSEY  
SHEET METAL ADDENDUM 
 
(General Contractor) (Project Management Firm) agrees that when subcontracting for 
prefabrication of H.V.A.C. duct and other related sheet metal, such prefabrication shall be 
subcontracted to fabricators who pay their employees engaged in such fabrication not less than the 
prevailing wage for comparable sheet metal fabrication as established under agreements between local 
affiliates of Sheet Metal Workers’ International Association and local sheet metal fabricators. 
(General Contractor) (Project Management Firm) and the Sheet Metal Workers’ International 
Association agree to work with fabrication shops referenced in the Addendum.  This joint effort will be 
directed at improving fabricators’ competitiveness through the application of continuous improvement 
principles. 
 
                                                                                                  __ 
(Prime Contractor)      Sheet Metal Workers’ 
                                          International Assoc. Local #25 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
41 
 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT 
COVERING THE NEW JERSEY SURFACE 
ALIGNMENT (PACKAGE 3) PROJECT 
IN HUDSON COUNTY, NEW JERSEY  
TEAMSTERS LOCAL 560 ADDENDUM 
 
1. Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 11, Section 2 of the Project Labor Agreement, a 
Contractor who becomes signatory to this Project Labor Agreement who is not already a 
participating and contributing employer to the pension fund(s) specified in the Schedule A 
collective bargaining agreement (currently the Trucking Employees of North Jersey Pension 
Fund, hereinafter the “TENJ Pension Fund,” and the Teamsters Local No. 408 Pension Fund), 
shall make direct all contributions required by the Schedule A collective bargaining agreement 
exclusively to the Trucking Employees of North Jersey Annuity Fund, a defined contribution 
plan. Any such Contractor shall not participate in or contribute to the TENJ or Local 408 
Pension Funds, and shall have no obligation to the TENJ or Local 408  Pension Funds. 
 
2. Any Contractor who is already participating in and contributing to the TENJ or Local 408  
Pension Fund, separately from this Project Labor Agreement, shall pay contributions as 
provided for in Article 11, Section 2 of this Project Labor Agreement. 
 
Agreed to and accepted this _____ day 
of ______, 2025: 
 
For the Prime Contractor:    For Teamsters Local 560 
 
 
_________________________    __________________________ 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
42 
 
EXHIBIT 2 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT 
COVERING THE NEW JERSEY SURFACE 
ALIGNMENT (PACKAGE 3) PROJECT 
IN HUDSON COUNTY, NEW JERSEY  
 
LETTER OF ASSENT 
 
Re: Project Labor Agreement, New Jersey Surface Alignment (Package 3) in Hudson County,  
New Jersey, The Hudson County Building & Trades Council, AFL-CIO and 
The undersigned, as a Prime Contractor, Contractor(s) or Subcontractor(s) on a Contract which is 
part of large project construction for the Gateway Development Commission known as the  New 
Jersey Surface Alignment (Package 3) in Hudson County,  New Jersey for and in consideration of 
the award of a Contract to perform work on said Project,  and in further consideration of the mutual 
promises made in the Project Labor Agreement, a copy of which was received and is acknowledged, 
hereby: 
(1) On behalf of itself and all its employees, accepts and agrees to be bound by the 
terms and conditions of the Project Labor Agreement, together with any and all  
amendments and supplements now existing or which are later made thereto, and 
understands that any act of non-compliance with all such terms and conditions will 
subject the non-complying Contractor or employee(s) to being prohibited from the 
Project Site until full compliance is obtained. 
(2) Certifies that it has no commitments or agreements that would preclude its full 
compliance with the terms and conditions of said Project Labor Agreement. 
(3) Agrees to secure from any Contractor(s) (as defined in said Project Labor 
Agreement) which is or  becomes a Subcontractor(s) (of any tier), a duly executed 
Letter of Assent in a form identical to this document prior to commencement of any 
work. 
 
Company Name 
By:    Contract Number  
Title:    Prime Contractor  
Date:     
cc: (Unions employed by Contractor)     
 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
43 
EXHIBIT 3 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT 
COVERING THE NEW JERSEY SURFACE 
ALIGNMENT (PACKAGE 3) PROJECT 
IN HUDSON COUNTY, NEW JERSEY  
DRUG
 AND ALCOHOL POLICY 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
EXHIBIT 3 
PROJECT LABOR AGREEMENT 
COVERING THE 
NJ SURFACE ALIGNMENT (PACKAGE 3) PROJECT IN 
HUDSON COUNTY, NEW JERSEY 
SUBSTANCE ABUSE PREVENTION POLICY 
The following Substance Abuse Prevention Policy prohibits the unauthorized use of 
controlled substances or the use of alcohol by Project employees on or near the Project Site. 
The unauthorized use of controlled substances or the use of alcohol by Project employees 
is inconsistent with a safe, healthy and productive work environment on the Project. This Policy 
directs the Prime Contractor and all Contractors and Subcontractors to establish and maintain an 
effective program for achieving a drug-free workforce on the Project. 
The Project is a drug - and alcohol -free workplace, to further the safe and productive 
working conditions with due regard for the personal privacy interests of Project employees.  It is 
not the intention of the parties that the Prime Contractor, or any Contractor or Subcontractor 
intrudes on off -duty activities of Project employees away from the Project Site unless these 
activities have a job-related impact.  The circumstances permitting controlled substance and 
alcohol testing in this Policy have been careful ly defined and intentionally restricted. The Prime 
Contractor will retain oversight over its Policy and will monitor test procedures for consistency 
and Policy compliance. 
SUMMARY 
The basic elements of the Policy are as follows.  Unauthorized use, possession or sale of 
controlled substances or alcohol on the Project Site is prohibited. Persons who violate this Policy 
or who are convicted for selling, using, or possessing controlled substances off the job will not be 
permitted to work on the Project and are subject to disciplinary action up to and including 
permanent removal or debarment from the Project Site pursuant to this Policy. The Prime  
1 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

2 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
Contractor, the Contractors and the Subcontractors have the right to test for controlled substances 
and alcohol and testing will be conducted under this Policy, pursuant to any or all of the following: 
A. Pre-Assignment to the Project Site 
 
B. Reasonable Suspicion/ Cause 
 
C. Post-Accident and Post-Incident 
 
D. Return to Duty 
 
Employees who report for work at the Project Site and are determined to have alcohol or 
unauthorized controlled substances in their system will not be permitted to remain on the Project. 
Employees who violate this Policy will be denied future access to the Project Site and will not be 
eligible for reassignment to the Prime Contractor, or any Contractor or Subcontractor on the 
Project. The Policy will apply to the Prime Contractor and Contractor and Subcontractor craft 
personnel, both union and those excluded under Article 3 at the Project Site covered by the Project 
Labor Agreement. Employees will be required to sign a consent form and present a valid photo 
identification card such as a government-issued driver’s license when a test is performed. 
The screening that this Policy requires will not apply to: 
 
A. Employees and entities involved in deliveries to and from the Project Site who or which 
are not under the direct supervision of the Prime Contractor; 
B. Vendors and employees of vendors engaged on the Project Site in equipment, testing, 
inspection, training, warranty work, or engaged in corrections of defective or non-  
conforming work, unless such employees are expressly included in the bargaining unit 
of a local signatory to this Agreement; 
C. Employees engaged in ancillary work on the Project which is performed by third 
parties, such as electric utilities, gas utilities, telephone companies, and railroads, or 
any other work not constituting Project Work; 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

3 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
D. Employees of any governmental authority (state, local or otherwise) or employees of 
any contractor of such governmental authority; or 
E. Employees and contractors engaged by the Owner, whose work is ancillary to Project 
work. 
However, any employee or worker in any of the above categories who is determined or reasonably 
suspected to have alcohol or unauthorized controlled substances in his or her possession or system 
will be removed from the Project Site and denied future access to the Project Site. 
CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES 
 
For purposes of this Policy, "controlled substances" includes drugs such as cocaine, 
marijuana/THC, opiates including heroin, hydrocodone, oxycodone, codeine, morphine, and 
methadone, phencyclidine (PCP), amphetamines, barbiturates, benzodiazepines, and any over-the- 
counter drugs, medications, health supplements or designer and synthetic drugs, including 
medication prescribed by a duly licensed health care provider, which may alter or affect an 
individual’s motor functions or mental capacity. Any testing for marijuana 1) shall be consistent 
with the requirements of N.J.S.A. C.24:6I-6.1 and N.J.S.A. 24:6I-52a(1) and 2) will comply with 
the regulations and guidance issued by the New Jersey Cannabis Regulatory Commission, pursuant 
to N.J.S.A. 24:6I-52a(2)(a). See e.g. 
www.nj.gov/cannabis/documents/businesses/Business%20Resources/Workplace%20Impairment 
 
%20Guidance%20922.pdf. 
 
Pre-Assignment 
 
Any person who seeks access to the Project Site to perform work covered by the Project 
Labor Agreement is subject to a mandatory controlled substance test as a condition of obtaining 
his or her first access to the Project Site as per required in the Project OCIP. Consistent with current 
New Jersey law, initially pre-assignment testing will not include testing for marijuana. However, 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

4 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
if New Jersey law is amended to permit disqualification from the job based on a positive test for 
marijuana, or if the federal government or a federal contract or federal award mandates pre-  
assignment testing for marijuana at the Project, then the parties  to the Project Labor Agreement 
will discuss and implement appropriate changes to this Policy. 
 
 
Reasonable Cause Testing 
 
All employees are subject to a controlled substance and alcohol test where the Prime 
Contractor or the Contractor has reasonable cause to believe that an employee may be impaired 
on the job or in a job status (such as on Contractor -provided transportation). Reasonable cause 
can be described as, but is not limited to the employee’s: 
A. Violent or irrational behavior; 
B. Emotional unsteadiness; 
C. Possession of alcoholic beverages on premises; 
D. Possession of illegal drugs or paraphernalia on premises; 
E. Sensory or motor-skill malfunctions; 
F. Noticeable decline in the Employee’s productivity; and 
G. Repeated lateness or absenteeism from work. 
 
Post-Accident and Post-Incident Testing 
 
After each work -related accident or injury requiring the attention of an off -site licensed 
medical professional services of an offsite licensed health care provider, the injured individual 
and/or any individual causing, or contributing to, or who cannot be  completely discounted as 
having contributed to, the accident or incident will be required to submit to a controlled substance 
and/or alcohol test immediately following the accident/incident, and ideally not more than two 
hours after the accident/incident.
 In certain instances, the individual to be tested may require 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

5 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
emergency medical care, in which case a urine specimen must be obtained by the collection facility 
immediately after treatment is rendered. If more than 8 hours have passed since the 
accident/incident and no specimen has been collected, an alcohol test will not be required. If more 
than 32 hours have passed since the accident/incident and no specimen has been collected, a 
controlled substances screen will not be required. 
In addition, any individual contributing to or causing a non- injury related industrial 
incident, with damages at or in excess of $1,500 will be required to submit to a drug and alcohol 
test unless: 
1. The employee’s performance can be completely discounted as a contributing factor 
to the accident/incident; or 
2. The incident was caused by inadequate equipment or system design, and/or 
premature failure of equipment or system components. 
Any individual who is responsible for, or who contributed to, or who cannot be completely 
discounted as having contributed to a near miss incident will be required to submit to a drug and 
alcohol test. A near miss incident generally involves an individual’s intentional, reckless or 
negligent behavior in derogation of good safety practices such that the behavior, if repeated, would 
likely result in personal injury or significant property damages. 
Return to Duty Testing 
 
An employee who is eligible to return to work at the Project Site but who for any reason 
has not worked at the Project Site for a period of six consecutive months or longer is subject to a 
drug and alcohol test as a condition of returning to work at the Project Site, The employee will be 
required to submit to an Evidential Breath Test (EBT) and a drug test. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

6 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
If the employee refuses to take the test for a reason other than his or her need to perform a 
critical work task (including but not limited to leaving the Project Site after being referred for a 
drug or alcohol screen), the Prime Contractor will: 
1. Inform the employee of the consequences of his /her actions. 
 
2. If the employee still refuses, the employee will be permanently removed or 
debarred from the Project Site. 
 
General Provisions Applying to Reasonable Suspicion, Post-Accident, Post-Incident Testing. 
If the applicant’s or employee’s alcohol and/or the initial drug screen test results are 
negative, then the applicant or employee will assume or resume usual employment status and 
duties, during the period of time when the drug test results are being confirmed as negative by the 
designated laboratory. 
If the initial drug screen indicates a positive, non- negative or inconclusive result, the 
employee will be suspended from work until the laboratory confirms the results.  If the 
confirmatory results are positive, the applicant or employee will be considered in violation of this 
Policy and permanently removed or debarred from the Project Site. If the confirmatory results are 
negative, the applicant or employee will assume or resume his/her usual employment status and 
receive back pay for his/her time not worked during his/her suspension, if applicable. 
DISCIPLINARY ACTION 
 
Employees who refuse to cooperate with this Policy will not be forcibly detained or 
searched but are subject to disciplinary action up to and including permanent removal from the 
Project Site pursuant to this Policy. 
TESTING PROCEDURES 
Testing procedures, including the substances to be tested, split samples, specimen 
collection, chain of custody and threshold and confirmatory test levels shall comport with the 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

7 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
Mandatory Guidelines For Federal Workplace Testing Programs established by the U.S. 
Department of Health and Human Services, as amended and the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Act 
regulations, where applicable. Controlled substance tests shall be conducted only by laboratories 
licensed and approved by the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration 
("SAMHSA") formerly known as the National Institute of Drug Abuse (NIDA) which comply with 
the American Occupational Medical Association (AOMA) ethical standards. Any alcohol testing 
will be conducted in a manner consistent with New Jersey law. Controlled substance tests shall not 
be conducted for over-the-counter drugs, medications and health supplements. 
Applicable Cut -Off Levels for Controlled Substance Testing: Consistent with the 
Department of Transportation Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Programs, 49 CFR Part 40, 
the following cut-off levels shall apply to all controlled substance tests under this Policy: 
Drug Name Initial Cut-off Level (ng/ml) Confirmation Cut-Off Level (ng/ml) 
Marijuana/THC 50 15 
Cocaine Metabolites 150 100 
Opiate Metabolites 2,000 2,000 
Hydrocordone/hydromorphine 300 100 
Amphetamines 500 250 
Codeine/morphine 2000 2000 
Oxycodone/oxymorphone 100 100 
6-Acetylmorphine 10 10 
MDMA/MDAa 500 250 
 
Applicable Cut -Off Levels for Alcohol Testing:  Consistent with the Department of 
Transportation Workplace Drug and Alcohol Testing Programs, an applicant or employee will be 
 
a MDMA is Methylenedioxymethamphetamine. MDA is Methylenedioxyamphetamine. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

8 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
considered to be using or under the influence of alcohol if his or her blood alcohol concentration 
is .04 or greater, determined by a confirmation test using an evidential breath testing device.  An 
applicant or employee who is found to have a blood alcohol concentration of .02 or greater but less 
than .04 will be removed from the Project site until the start of his/her next regular work day and 
will not be paid for the remainder of the work day. 
Specimens may be collected at the Project Site by a SAMHSA -certified lab. When an 
applicant or employee is referred to an off -site specimen collection location, he or she will be 
escorted to and from the off-site collection location by a supervisor or manager. 
CONSENT FORMS 
 
The applicant or employee must execute a written consent, in the form attached, to submit 
to the test and for the testing laboratory to release the report of test results (positive or negative) to 
the Prime Contractor, the MRO and the applicant or employee’s employer.  Failure to sign the 
appropriate release form or to comply with testing procedures otherwise will result in the 
employee’s or applicant’s being barred from the Project. Signing the consent form shall not waive 
any individual rights available under federal or state law. 
SEARCHES AND INSPECTIONS 
 
The Prime Contractor and/or Contractor reserves the right to conduct searches on Owner 
and/or Contractor premises, work sites and vehicles and of employees, their clothing, lockers, 
purses, lunch boxes, briefcases, desks, tool boxes, personal vehicles or other personal effects if 
possession of prohibited substances is reasonably suspected.  Searches and inspections of the 
entire work group may be conducted without prior announcement.  All searches and inspections 
conducted pursuant to this Agreement and this Policy will be on the clock, unless the search is 
being conducted when the applicant or employee is entering or exiting the Project Site.  Trained 
narcotic dogs may be used in searches. Searches of applicants or employees and their clothing 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

9 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
will be performed by a person of the same gender. 
 
APPEAL PROCEDURE 
 
Subject to the last sentence in this paragraph, any dispute involving application of this 
Policy shall be referred to the Dispute and Grievance Procedure established by Article 9 of the 
Project Labor Agreement. Such dispute may be initiated at Step 2. Nothing in the grievance and 
arbitration procedure may void the application of this Policy to this Project. Any dispute over 
access to the Project Site by a worker who seeks employment by the Owner or by a subcontractor 
engaged by the Owner or is not subject to screening as provided in this Policy is not grievable 
under Article 9 of the Project Labor Agreement or any Exhibit 1 or 2 CBA. 
SAVINGS AND SEPARABILITY 
 
It is not the intention of the Unions or the Prime Contractor to violate any applicable federal 
or state laws by enactment of this Policy or in its application.  In the event any provisions of the 
Policy are held to be illegal or void as being in contravention of any law, the remaining provisions 
shall remain in full force and effect.  The parties agree further to meet promptly to commence 
negotiations concerning the provision affected by such decision for the purpose of achieving 
conformity with the requirements of applicable law and the intent of the parties hereto. 
REVISIONS OR AMENDMENTS 
 
No revisions or amendments shall be made to this Policy except with the written approval 
of the parties hereto. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

10 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
ALCOHOL AND CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE TESTING 
 
 
TYPE:   
 
LOCATION CODE:   
 
TO:   
 
POSITION:   
 
DEPT/PROJECT:   
1. As an employee or worker performing work on the Project (“Project"), you are ordered to be 
tested for substance abuse in accordance with the Prime Contractor’s Substance Abuse Prevention , 
based on pre-assignment (  ),  reasonable cause (  ),  post-accident or post-incident (  )  return to 
duty (  )  (check one) testing circumstances. 
 
2. An appointment has been made for you to be tested at: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Date:   
 
Time:   
 
3. You will be escorted to the collection site by an official or representative of your Employer. If the 
collection site is located off the Project-site, in addition you will be provided transportation to and 
from the collection site, and as applicable provided transportation to your residence, upon 
completion of the specimen collection. Any costs incurred for transportation will be paid by your 
Employer. 
 
4. At the collection site, you will be required to sign a form voluntarily consenting to submit to testing, 
to provide a specimen(s) as part of testing, and to release the test results to the Prime Contractor, your 
Employer and its Medical Review Officer. Refusal to sign this form is your decision not to comply 
with the Policy and will result in disciplinary action as set forth in the Policy and procedures for 
disciplinary action. 
 
5. Check here if this paragraph applies: ( ) You are hereby placed on indefinite suspension without 
pay pending the results of the substance abuse test. If the results are negative, you will be returned 
to work immediately and reimbursed for all lost time, and no record of the testing or indefinite 
suspension will be placed in your personnel file. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

11 
 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
6. All substance abuse testing required by the Employer will be in accordance with the Prime 
Contractor’s Policy and any applicable local, federal and state laws or regulations. 
 
7. Substance abuse testing of your breath and your urine specimen shall be conducted for the presence 
of alcohol in the system and for other controlled substances including: marijuana, cocaine, 
amphetamines, opiates (including heroin,  hydrocordone, hydromorphine, oxycodone, 
oxymorphone, codeine, morphine, and methadone), 6- Acetylmorphine, 
Methylenedioxymethamphetamine, Methylenedioxyamphetamine,  and any prescribed 
medications, over -the-counter drugs, medications, health supplements or designer and 
synthetic drugs which may alter or affect an individual’s motor functions or mental capacity. 
 
8. You are advised that over-the-counter medications or prescribed drugs may result in a positive test 
result. For this reason, the Prime Contractor’s Medical Review Officer needs your assistance in 
identifying which medications or drugs you may be taking at the present time and may have taken 
within the past 30 days to ensure accuracy of testing results. This disclosure is optional but 
will assist the diagnostic lab and the Medical Review Officer in performing an accurate 
drug and alcohol screen. If you would like to voluntarily disclose that you are currently 
taking any medication(s) (including medical marijuana), please identify those medications 
and list them below: 
 
*Please bring a picture ID with you for identification at the time of testing. 
If you have any questions, please contact the undersigned. Failure to undergo substance abuse testing 
as required by the Prime Contractor or your Employer will result in disciplinary action. 
[signed: name, title, employer and phone number] 
 
cc: Medical Review Officer 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

12 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
MEMORANDUM 
 
TO:   
 
 
FROM:   
 
 
DATE:   
 
RE: CONFIDENTIALITY OF ALCOHOL AND CONTROLLED 
SUBSTANCE USE SCREENING RECORDS. 
 
The records maintained by   ("the Prime Contractor") in relation to its employee 
assistance program for alcohol or drug abuse (“EAP”) are protected by federal law and regulations. 
 
The Prime Contractor cannot disclose information identifying you as a patient or participant in EAP 
except in the following limited circumstances: 
1. You (the participant) have consented in writing; 
2. The disclosure is required by a court order; 
3. The information is necessary to meet a medical emergency involving you; 
4. The information is required by qualified personnel or research, audit or program evaluation. 
 
Violation of the federal law and regulations by a program is a crime. Suspected violations may be 
reported to appropriate authorities in accordance with federal regulations. 
Federal law and regulations do not protect any information about a crime committed by a patient 
either at the EAP or against any person who works for the EAP or about any threat to commit such a 
crime. 
Federal laws and regulations do not protect any information about suspected child abuse or neglect from 
being reported under state law to appropriate state or local authorities. 
 
Copy to employee's file. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

13 
 
EXECUTION VERSION  
Subject to Approval of the GDC Board of Commissioners 
 
CONSENT FORM FOR SUBSTANCE ABUSE TESTING 
 
 
Name:    
Address:   
Phone:   
Employer:   
Union:   
 
I hereby consent and agree to provide a urine specimen and consent to a breath test at the designated 
collection location. This specimen and breath test shall be used to detect the presence of alcohol ( 
_) and/or controlled substances ( _) (defined below) in my body based on pre- assignment ( ), 
reasonable cause ( ), post-accident or post-incident ( ) return to duty ( ) (check one) testing 
circumstances. I further consent and agree that the results of my alcohol and/or controlled substance 
test may be furnished to the Project Prime Contractor, and to my employer by the testing facility 
or by the Medical Review Officer for purposes of performing work on the Project. 
 
Controlled Substances include marijuana, cocaine, amphetamines, opiates (including heroin, 
hydrocordone, hydromorphine, oxycodone, oxymorphone, codeine, morphine and methadone), 6- 
Acetylmorphine, Methylenedioxymethamphetamine, Methylenedioxyamphetamine, and any over- 
the-counter drugs, medications, health supplements or designer and synthetic drugs which may 
alter or affect an individual’s motor functions or mental capacity. Consistent with New Jersey law, 
a pre-assignment test does not include a screen for marijuana use. 
 
My signature below acknowledges that I have read and understand the foregoing statements and 
the consent given herein. I understand that if I refuse to sign this form or to provide a urine specimen 
or submit to a breath test, I will be considered to be in violation of the Policy and I will be subject to 
disciplinary action as set forth in the Policy and procedures for disciplinary action, 
up to and including 
permanent removal or debarment from the Project Site. 
Employee Name:   
Employee Signature:   
Date:   
Witness Name:   
Witness Signature:   
Date:   

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/20/25 
 
1 
  
#0825-02: AUTHORIZATION OF AWARD OF CONTRACT GDC -25-029-OP FOR ENGINEER OF 
RECORD SERVICES AND ENGINEERING SERVICES DURING CONSTRUCTION  TO SUPPORT THE 
HUDSON TUNNEL PROJECT   
To help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
the State of New Jersey (“New Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) and throughout 
the Northeast Corridor  (the "NEC"), New  Jersey and New York  created the Gateway 
Development Commission (" GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state 
codified as the Gateway Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 
32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers the Commission to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any 
lawful purpose which the commissioners determine will facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government thereof, 
the state of New York, with any  local government thereof, with any agency, instrumentality, 
department, commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, any bi-state 
agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any one or more 
of them." 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e). 
Section 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 
In March 2025, a federally compliant Request for Proposals (“RFP”) No. GDC-25-029-OP 
was issued by GDC soliciting proposals  from entities interested in providing engineer of record 
services and engineering services during construction (“Services”) to support the Hudson Tunnel 
Project (“HTP”) with the exception of the Hudson Yards  Concrete Casing Section 3 ( “HYCC-3”) 
and the North River Tunnel Project (“Package 5”). Proposals were received from one (1) entity, 
a joint venture (JV) of three (3) firms  that are members of a JV serving as the current engineer 
of record for the HTP . The proposal was  reviewed by an evaluation panel consisting of 
representatives from Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, National Railroad Passenger 
Corporation (“ Amtrak”), NJ TRANSIT, New York Department of Transportation  and GDC  
(collectively, “Evaluation Panel”). The Evaluation Panel recommended the JV be invited for oral 
presentations and to submit an initial Cost Proposal. Thereafter, GDC undertook the negotiation 
of terms and conditions, insurance, and price with the  JV, the JV thereafter submitted an 
additional Best and Final Offer, and the Evaluation Panel recommended the firm for award. The 
recommended JV was found responsive and responsible , and the negotiated price has been 
determined to be fair and reasonable .  The initial term of Contract GDC-25-029-OP is ten (10) 
years ending in 2035 (“Term”), and thereafter, GDC has the option to extend the term for up to 
three (3) one (1) year extensions which, if elected, will end the term in 2038 (“Renewal Term”). 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted 8/20/25 
2 
Under Resolution 0425-02 approved by the Board of Commissioners on April 14, 2025, 
the GDC Chief Executive Officer or designee was authorized to utilize NFP Property & Casualty, 
Inc., an Aon Company (“ NFP”) to develop and recommend the HTP Insurance Program, which 
shall be approved by the Board of Commissioners in consultation with the State of New Jersey, 
the State of New York, and Amtrak. 
Pursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution w as adopted, with Vice Chair 
Coscia, Co-Chair Glen, Co-Chair Grewal-Virk, Commissioner Barbas, Commissioner Herlinsky, and 
Commissioner Rosen voting in favor: 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice 
President, or Deputy Chief Administration-Procurement is authorized to enter into and execute 
Contract GDC-25-029-OP with Gateway Trans Hudson Partnership Engineering, a Joint Venture 
(“GTHPE”), together with Task Orders numbered  1 through 11 thereto (collectively, “EOR Task 
Orders”), in an amount not to exceed $369,291,544 for the base term and optional renewal 
terms (the “Contract Price”).  
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or designee is authorized to increase 
Contract GDC-25-029-OP by an additional amount equal to five percent (5%) for contingencies, in 
each case subject to the availability of funds, and to take all other steps necessary to comply with 
the terms and conditions of Contract GDC-25-029-OP. 
RESOLVED, that GDC is authorized to include in the HTP Insurance Program a policy  to be 
obtained by GTHPE by Task Order for the benefit of the  HTP (excluding HYCC-3 and Package 5)  
and the GDC Chief Executive Officer or designee may enter into  and execute any documents on 
behalf of GDC in connection therewith in their discretion. 
RESOLVED, that  the  GDC  Chief Executive Officer is authorized, within the total 
authorized Contract Price and in accordance with the terms of this Resolution, to take all actions 
necessary to effectuate, enter into,  authorize, approve, create, amend, manage, and/or 
terminate any aspect of Contract GDC -25-029-OP (including without limitation, the EOR Task 
Orders) and make, execute, and deliver in the name of and on behalf of GDC other documents 
or certifications as may be necessary or required in connection therewith. 
R
ESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, is authorized to delegate, in writing, the 
authority to authorize, approve, create, amend, manage, and/or terminate any aspect of Contract 
GDC-25-029-OP (including without limitation, the EOR Task Orders) and execute such documents 
as may be required to the Chief Financial Officer, Executive Vice President or Deputy Chief 
Administration-Procurement, or other officers or employees of GDC provided that the Chief 
Executive Officer provides notice in writing to the Co -Chairs and Vice Chair of the Board of such 
delegation and any delegations of authority having occurred prior hereto are hereby ratified.  