  
G
ateway Development Commission 
Special Meeting of the Board  
Held Via Teleconference 
August 28, 2024 
M
INUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Janine Bauer 
Amy Rosen 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
AMTRAK 
Anthony R. Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. C
all to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Glen at approximately 10:00 AM.
Co-Chair Glen  advised that public comments were being solicited virtually and audio of the
meeting was being live streamed from the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Glen noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and that a 
form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway Program website for those who wished 
to submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting Secretary Anderson  conducted a roll call and confirmed that all Commissioners were 
present (with the exception of Co-Chair Grewal-Virk and Commissioner Dominguez), and that there was 
a quorum.  
Acting Secretary Anderson stated that adequate notice of today’s public meeting of the Board of 
Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s enabling 
legislation. 
II. Report on Minutes of the August 1, 2024 Meeting
Acting Secretary Anderson reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of August 1, 2024
were delivered in electronic form to the Governors of New York and New Jersey on August 1 , 2024, and 
that the time for action by the Governors of New York and New Jersey expired at midnight on August 15, 
2024, at which time the actions recorded in the Minutes went into full force and effect. 
III. Gateway Program Update
The Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Kris Kolluri, provided an update on the Federal-State
P
artnership for Intercity Passenger Rail Grant Agreement with the United States Department of 
Transportation, Federal Railroad Administration. 
Following the presentation, Co-Chair Glen thanked Mr. Kolluri for the update, and there were no 
questions or comments from the Board.  
IV. Public Comments
Co-Chair Glen announced that the Commission had solicited virtual comments from the public in
advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for soliciting these comments was 
posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout today’s meeting.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
2 
Th
ere were two (2) written comments received by 5:00 PM on August 27, 2024: 
Commenter Topic 
Shelley Armato, Build with Accountability 
and Sustainable Data  
Hudson Tunnel Project Data Analysis 
William Healey, NJ Alliance for Action Federal Funding 
C
o-Chair Glen noted that all written comments received by 5:00 p.m. on August 27, 2024 before 
the meeting were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and would be filed 
in the Commission’s records after the meeting. The Commission did not receive any additional written 
comments on the day of the Board Meeting.  
V. A
ction Items 
#0824-06: Authorization delegating authority to Chief Executive Officer to Enter Into, Execute, and 
Amend Federal-State Partnership for Intercity Passenger Rail Grant Agreement with the United States 
Department of Transportation, Federal Railroad Administration, and related Agreements with NJ 
Transit Corporation and National Railroad Passenger Corporation 
Th
e Board acted on this referenced action item, enclosed herewith.  Commissioners did not 
have any comments on this Resolution.  Commissioner Barbas made a motion, and Commissioner Coscia 
seconded the motion. The roll call vote is referenced in the attached Resolution. 
VI
. Adjournment 
Co-Chair Glen noted that there was no further business to conduct, and then motioned to adjourn 
the meeting. Upon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair Glen and seconded by Commissioner Rosen, 
the meeting was adjourned at approximately 10:10 AM.  
R
espectfully submitted, 
/
s/ Maria C. Anderson  
Maria C. Anderson, Acting Secretary 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted- 8/28/24 
#0824-06: AUTHORIZATION DELEGATING AUTHORITY TO CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER TO ENTER 
INTO, EXECUTE, AND AMEND FEDERAL-STATE PARTNERSHIP FOR INTERCITY PASSENGER RAIL 
GRANT AGREEMENT WITH THE UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION, FEDERAL 
RAILROAD ADMINISTRATION, AND RELATED AGREEMENTS WITH NJ TRANSIT CORPORATION 
AND NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORPORATION 
To
 help ensure the functionality of intercity and commuter rail infrastructure between 
New Jersey and New York and throughout the Northeast Corridor, the State of New Jersey (“New 
Jersey”) and the State of New York (“New York”) created the Gateway Development Commission 
("GDC") through the enactment of parallel legislation by each state codified as the Gateway 
Development Commission Act (2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108 and N.J.S.A. 32:36-1, et seq.) (collectively, 
the "GDC Act"). 
The GDC Act empowers GDC to "enter into, execute and deliver contracts and 
agreements and other documents and instruments as may be necessary or appropriate to 
carry out any power of the Commission under this act and to otherwise accomplish any lawful 
purpose which the commissioners d etermine will Facilitate the Project, including, without 
limitation, with the federal government, the state of New Jersey, any local government 
thereof, the state of New York, with any local government thereof, with any agency,  
instrumentality, department, commission or authority of any one or more of the foregoing, 
any bi-state agency, Amtrak, any individual or private firm, entity or corporation, or with any 
one or more of them. " 2019 N.Y. Laws, Ch. 108, Section 2(7)(e); N.J.S.A. 32:36-8(e). 
By Resolution #0922- 01, the Board authorized GDC to assume the role of NEPA Project 
Sponsor and federal grant recipient for the Hudson Tunnel Project (“ HTP”) from the Port 
Authority of New York and New Jersey. 
G
DC has been informed that the United States Department of Transportation (“USDOT”), 
through the Federal Railroad  Administration (“FRA”), has authorized GDC to receive a Federal-
State Partnership for Intercity Passenger Rail G rant (“FSP”) in the maximum amount 
$3,799,999,820 to be used for payment of HTP project costs .  Relevant terms and conditions 
pertaining to the FSP will be memorialized in an agreement to be entered into between the F RA 
and GDC (the “FSPA”).  
T
he FSPA imposes  obligations upon GDC that must be performed by NJ TRANSIT  and 
Amtrak and requires GDC to enter into a greements with NJ TRANSIT (“ NJT Agreemen t”) and 
Amtrak (“Amtrak Agreement”) to ensure such performance. 
S
ection 3.06 of the GDC Bylaws provides that “[t]he Board may delegate in whole or in 
part any power, authority, discretion or obligation to any Officer, in each case to the extent to 
which the Board deems appropriate.” 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted- 8/28/24 
In order to enable the efficient and timely effectuation of the Gateway Program, and in 
particular the HTP, it is necessary to delegate to the Chief Executive Officer the authority to take 
categories of actions in addition to those delegated in the Bylaws. 
P
ursuant to the foregoing report, the following resolution was  adopted, with 
Commissioners [INSERT NAMES HERE] voting in favor, and Commissioners [INSERT NAMES HERE] 
voting against: 
RE
SOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is delegated authority on behalf of GDC 
to enter into the FSPA, NJT Agreement and Amtrak Agreement. 
RE
SOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all actions 
consistent with this Resolution and is directed to finalize the terms of the FSPA  and make, 
execute, and deliver in the name of and on behalf of GDC the FSPA once finalized, and to take all 
other steps necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of the FSPA once executed. 
RE
SOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all actions 
to make, execute, and deliver in the name of and on behalf of GDC amendments to the FSPA as 
may be necessary or required for the delivery of the HTP, subject to the concurrence of the 
National Railroad Passenger Corporation, Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, NJ Transit 
Corporation, New Jersey Turnpike Authority, t he Treasurer of the State of New Jersey, and/or 
State of New York, as applicable, on the content of such amendments, and to take all other steps 
necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of amendments to the FSPA. 
RE
SOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all actions 
consistent with this resolution, and is directed to finalize the terms of the Amtrak  Agreement  
with Amtrak concerning performance of Amtrak obligations as required by the FSPA, and make, 
execute, and deliver in the name of and on behalf of GDC the Amtrak  Agreement once finalized, 
and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of the  Amtrak 
Agreement once executed and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms and 
conditions of such Amtrak Agreement. 
RE
SOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to take any and all actions 
consistent with this resolution, and is directed to finalize the terms of the NJT Agreement with NJ 
TRANSIT concerning NJ TRANSIT performance obligations as required by the FSPA, and make, 
execute, and deliver in the name of and on behalf of GDC the NJT Agreement once finalized, and 
to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of the NJT Agreement 
once executed and to take all other steps necessary to comply with the terms and conditions of 
such NJT Agreement. 
RE
SOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer, General Counsel, Chief Financial Officer, 
and Chief Administrative Officer are each  authorized to take any and all actions consistent with 
the FSPA, NJT Agreement and Amtrak Agreement, and make, execute, and deliver in the name of 
and on behalf of GDC any other documents and certifications as may be necessary or required in 
order to achieve entry into the FSPA and the NJT Agreement and Amtrak Agreement. 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

Adopted- 8/28/24 
RESOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to approve, create, amend, 
manage, and administer, the FSPA, NJT Agreement and Amtrak Agreement,  on behalf of GDC 
upon such terms as the Chief Executive Officer may deem proper, subject to the concurrence of 
the National Railroad Passenger Corporation,  Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, NJ 
Transit Corporation, New Jersey Turnpike Authority, t he Treasurer of the State of New Jersey, 
and/or State of New York, as applicable, on the content of such FSPA  amendment, and to enter 
into or execute any such agreements or other documents or certifications on behalf of GDC as 
may be necessary or required in connection with the establishment, maintenance , receipt and 
disbursement of funds pursuant to the FSPA and NJT Agreement and Amtrak Agreement. 
RE
SOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to delegate, in writing, the 
authority to authorize, approve, create, amend, and manage any aspect of the FSPA , NJT 
Agreement and Amtrak Agreement,  and execute such documents as may be required to 
effectuate the FSPA, NJT Agreement and Amtrak Agreement  to other officers or employees of 
GDC provided that the GDC Chief Executive Officer provides notice in writing to the Co-Chairs and 
Vice Chair of the Board of such delegation. 
RE
SOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer or designee may enter into and execute 
any agreements and other documents on behalf of GDC in connection with the FSPA , NJT 
Agreement and Amtrak Agreement in their discretion. 
RE
SOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer is authorized to settle all claims by or 
against GDC arising out of the FSPA, NJT Agreement and Amtrak Agreement  where the total 
payment or amount of the claim is not in  excess of $500,000.  Claims against GDC shall include 
claims against individuals for which GDC would be responsible under Article VII of GDC’s Bylaws 
(“Defense and Indemnification of Individuals”) provided, however, that in the case of claims 
against individuals for which GDC would be responsible under said Article VII which are covered 
by insurance purchased by or on behalf of such individuals, GDC shall pay such claims only to the 
extent that they are in excess of the amount for which insurance carriers are responsible. 
RE
SOLVED, that the GDC Chief Executive Officer will report back to the GDC Board of 
Commissioners upon entry into the FSPA, NJT Agreement and Amtrak Agreement, and execution 
of all documents related thereto or any amendments thereto. 