  
G
ateway Development Commission 
Regular Meeting of the Board  
In-Person (New York) 
January 27, 2026 
M
INUTES 
The following Commissioners were present: 
NEW JERSEY 
Balpreet Grewal-Virk, Co-Chair 
Victor Herlinsky 
Justin Braz 
NEW YORK 
Alicia Glen, Co-Chair 
Jamey Barbas 
Marie Therese Dominguez 
AMTRAK 
Anthony Coscia, Vice Chair 
I. C
all to Order
The public meeting was called to order by Co-Chair Glen at approximately 10:00 A.M.
Co-Chair Glen  advised that public comments were being solicited virtually, and audio of the
meeting was being live streamed from the Gateway Program website. 
Co-Chair Glen noted that the Commission was continuing to solicit virtual comments, and that a 
form for soliciting these comments was posted on the Gateway Program website for those who wished 
to submit a comment for today’s meeting. 
Acting Secretary Anderson  conducted a roll call and confirmed that all Commissioners were 
present, and that there was a quorum.  
Acting Secretary Anderson stated that adequate notice of today’s public meeting of the Board of 
Commissioners of the Commission had been provided in accordance with the Commission’s enabling 
legislation. 
II. Report on Minutes of December 15, 2025, Meeting
Acting Secretary Anderson reported that copies of the Minutes of the meeting of the December
15, 2025 were delivered in electronic form to the Governors of New York and New Jersey on December 
15, 2025. On December 23, 2025, the Governors of New York and New Jersey approved the Minutes of 
Resolution 1225-02 at the meeting on December 15, 2025, at which time that action recorded in the 
Minutes went into full force and effect.  The time for action by the Governors of New York and New Jersey 
for all other Resolutions expired at midnight on December 30, 2025, at which time such other actions 
recorded in the Minutes went into full force and effect.  
III. Report on Public Comments
Acting Secretary Anderson announced that the Commission had solicited virtual comments from
the public in advance of, and during, today’s meeting. She indicated that a form for soliciting these 
comments was posted to the Gateway Program website and was available throughout today’s meeting.  
There were four (4) written comments received by 5:00 PM on January 26, 2026: 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
2 
Commenter Topic 
Congressman Robert Menendez, U.S. House of 
Representatives 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
State Senator Liz Krueger and Assemblymember 
Tony Simone, New York State Legislature 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Michael Makarski, Engineers Labor-Employer 
Cooperative 825 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Samuel Turvey, ReThink NYC/Empire Station 
Coalition/Penn Community Defense Fund 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
C
o-Chair Glen noted that all written comments received by 5:00 p.m. on January 26, 2026, 
before the meeting, were distributed to the Board, posted on the Gateway Program website, and would 
be filed in the Commission’s records after the meeting.  
T
he following individuals provided in-person public comments during the January 27, 2026, Board 
Meeting:  
Commenter Topic 
U.S. Senator for the State of New York Charles 
Schumer 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
U.S. Congressman for the State of New Jersey Josh 
Gottheimer 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Ravi Reddi, U.S. Senator for the State of New York 
Kristen Gillebrand 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
New York City Council Member Eric Bottcher Hudson Tunnel Project 
Jerry Keenan, NJ Alliance for Action Hudson Tunnel Project 
Santos Rodriguez, New York City Bu ilding 
Construction Trades Council 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Am Rienzi, Local No. 825 Hudson Tunnel Project 
John Napisa, The Association for a Better New 
York 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Davon Lomaz, DC9 Painters Hudson Tunnel Project 
Michael Grunert, IBEW Local No. 3 Hudson Tunnel Project 
David Caraballoso, NYC District Council of 
Carpenters  
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Robert Brunake, Local No. 79 Hudson Tunnel Project 
Michael Hellstrom, Laborers International U nion 
of North America 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
John Mooney, Local No. 580 Hudson Tunnel Project 
Tom Wright, Regional Plan Association Hudson Tunnel Project 
Brian Fitsch, Permanent Citizens Advisory 
Committee to the MTA 
Hudson Tunnel Project 
Henry Soderlund, Local No. 3 Hudson Tunnel Project 
Robert Fawcett, Local No. 472 Hudson Tunnel Project 

=== PAGE BREAK ===

  
3 
Steve Valeira, Local No. 472 Hudson Tunnel Project 
Michael Anderson, Local No. 46 Hudson Tunnel Project 
Mateo Colon, New York Building Congress Hudson Tunnel Project 
Ronald Sirois, Teamsters Local No. 282 Hudson Tunnel Project 
Joe Todaro, Laborers Local No. 731 Hudson Tunnel Project 
Raymond Klein, Teamsters Local No. 282 Hudson Tunnel Project 
Alex Pena, Partnership for New York City Hudson Tunnel Project 
Chris Boylan, General Contractors Association Hudson Tunnel Project 
Commissioner Sarah Sooy, Somerset County Hudson Tunnel Project 
Th
ere was one (1) written comment received during the meeting on January 27, 2026: 
Commenter Topic 
Maddie DeCerbo, Real Estate Board of New York Hudson Tunnel Project 
I
V. Gateway Program Update
The Commission’s Chief Executive Officer, Thomas Prendergast , and Chief Program Delivery
Officer James Starace provided an update on the Hudson Tunnel Project.  Following the presentation, Co-
Chair Glen  and Co -Chair Grewal- Virk thanked Mr. Prendergast  and Mr. Starace f or the update  and 
provided their own comments. There were no questions from the Board.  
V. Action Items
There were no action items.
VI. Executive Session
C
o-Chair Glen stated that the Board would enter Executive Session to discuss contract
n
egotiations, personnel matters, and matters in which the release of information could impair a right to 
receive funds from the United States. Co-Chair Glen noted that the Board would reconvene the public 
meeting for the purpose of adjourning the meeting. Co-Chair Glen motioned to enter into Executive 
Session, Commissioner Herlinsky seconded the motion, and the motion was unanimously adopted at 
approximately 12:00 PM.  
V
II. Reconvening of Public Meeting
T
he public meeting was reconvened by Co-Chair Glen at approximately 12:05 PM. Acting
Secretary Anderson confirmed that there was a quorum of Commissioners present.  
V
III. Adjournment
Co-Chair Glen noted that there was no further business to conduct and then motioned to adjourn
the meeting. Upon the motion being duly made by Co-Chair Glen and seconded by Co-Chair Grewal -Virk 
the meeting was adjourned at approximately 12: 05 PM.  

=== PAGE BREAK ===

4 
 Respectfully submitted, 
/s/ Maria C. Anderson 
Maria C. Anderson, Acting Secretary 